Samuel 1:1	Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite:
Samuel 1:2	and he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
Samuel 1:3	And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests unto Jehovah, were there.
Samuel 1:4	And when the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions:
Samuel 1:5	but unto Hannah he gave a double portion; for he loved Hannah, but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Samuel 1:6	And her rival provoked her sore, to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Samuel 1:7	And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
Samuel 1:8	And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
Samuel 1:9	So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest was sitting upon his seat by the door-post of the temple of Jehovah.
Samuel 1:10	And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
Samuel 1:11	And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man-child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
Samuel 1:12	And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli marked her mouth.
Samuel 1:13	Now Hannah, she spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore Eli thought she had been drunken.
Samuel 1:14	And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
Samuel 1:15	And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I poured out my soul before Jehovah.
Samuel 1:16	Count not thy handmaid for a wicked woman; for out of the abundance of my complaint and my provocation have I spoken hitherto.
Samuel 1:17	Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
Samuel 1:18	And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. So the woman went her way, and did eat; and her countenance was no more'sad .
Samuel 1:19	And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
Samuel 1:20	And it came to pass, when the time was come about, that Hannah conceived, and bare a son; and she called his name Samuel,'saying , Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
Samuel 1:21	And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
Samuel 1:22	But Hannah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned; and then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
Samuel 1:23	And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good; tarry until thou have weaned him; only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman tarried and gave her son suck, until she weaned him.
Samuel 1:24	And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was young.
Samuel 1:25	And they slew the bullock, and brought the child to Eli.
Samuel 1:26	And she said, Oh, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, praying unto Jehovah.
Samuel 1:27	For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my petition which I asked of him:
Samuel 1:28	therefore also I have granted him to Jehovah; as long as he liveth he is granted to Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah there.
Samuel 2:1	And Hannah prayed, and said: My heart exulteth in Jehovah; My horn is exalted in Jehovah; My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; Because I rejoice in thy salvation.
Samuel 2:2	There is none holy as Jehovah; For there is none besides thee, Neither is there any rock like our God.
Samuel 2:3	Talk no more so exceeding proudly; Let not arrogancy come out of your mouth; For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, And by him actions are weighed.
Samuel 2:4	The bows of the mighty men are broken; And they that stumbled are girded with strength.
Samuel 2:5	They that were full have hired out themselves for bread; And they that were hungry have ceased to hunger : Yea, the barren hath borne seven; And she that hath many children languisheth.
Samuel 2:6	Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive: He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
Samuel 2:7	Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich: He bringeth low, he also lifteth up.
Samuel 2:8	He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, He lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, To make them sit with princes, And inherit the throne of glory: For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, And he hath set the world upon them.
Samuel 2:9	He will keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall be put to silence in darkness; For by strength shall no man prevail.
Samuel 2:10	They that strive with Jehovah shall be broken to pieces; Against them will he thunder in heaven: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he will give strength unto his king, And exalt the horn of his anointed.
Samuel 2:11	And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child did minister unto Jehovah before Eli the priest.
Samuel 2:12	Now the sons of Eli were base men; they knew not Jehovah.
Samuel 2:13	And the custom of the priests with the people was, that, when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came, while the flesh was boiling, with a flesh-hook of three teeth in his hand;
Samuel 2:14	and he struck it into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot; all that the flesh-hook brought up the priest took therewith. So they did in Shiloh unto all the Israelites that came thither.
Samuel 2:15	Yea, before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to roast for the priest; for he will not have boiled flesh of thee, but raw.
Samuel 2:16	And if the man said unto him, They will surely burn the fat first, and then take as much as thy soul desireth; then he would say, Nay, but thou shalt give it me now: and if not, I will take it by force.
Samuel 2:17	And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for the men despised the offering of Jehovah.
Samuel 2:18	But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, girded with a linen ephod.
Samuel 2:19	Moreover his mother made him a little robe, and brought it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
Samuel 2:20	And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the petition which was asked of Jehovah. And they went unto their own home.
Samuel 2:21	And Jehovah visited Hannah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before Jehovah.
Samuel 2:22	Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel, and how that they lay with the women that did service at the door of the tent of meeting.
Samuel 2:23	And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil dealings from all this people.
Samuel 2:24	Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: ye make Jehovah's people to transgress.
Samuel 2:25	If one man sin against another, God shall judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall entreat for him? Notwithstanding, they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah was minded to slay them.
Samuel 2:26	And the child Samuel grew on, and increased in favor both with Jehovah, and also with men.
Samuel 2:27	And there came a man of God unto Eli, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I reveal myself unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in bondage to Pharaoh's house?
Samuel 2:28	and did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up unto mine altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? and did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire?
Samuel 2:29	Wherefore kick ye at my sacrifice and at mine offering, which I have commanded in my habitation, and honorest thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the chiefest of all the offerings of Israel my people?
Samuel 2:30	Therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever: but now Jehovah saith, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
Samuel 2:31	Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
Samuel 2:32	And thou shalt behold the affliction of my habitation, in all the wealth which God'shall give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
Samuel 2:33	And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar,'shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
Samuel 2:34	And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
Samuel 2:35	And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind: and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed for ever.
Samuel 2:36	And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and bow down to him for a piece of silver and a loaf of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests offices, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
Samuel 3:1	And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; there was no frequent vision.
Samuel 3:2	And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place (now his eyes had begun to wax dim, so that he could not see),
Samuel 3:3	and the lamp of God was not yet gone out, and Samuel was laid down to sleep , in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was;
Samuel 3:4	that Jehovah called Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
Samuel 3:5	And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
Samuel 3:6	And Jehovah called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again.
Samuel 3:7	Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed unto him.
Samuel 3:8	And Jehovah called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
Samuel 3:9	Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
Samuel 3:10	And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel said, Speak; for thy servant heareth.
Samuel 3:11	And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
Samuel 3:12	In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even unto the end.
Samuel 3:13	For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons did bring a curse upon themselves, and he restrained them not.
Samuel 3:14	And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be expiated with sacrifice nor offering for ever.
Samuel 3:15	And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision.
Samuel 3:16	Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
Samuel 3:17	And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he spake unto thee.
Samuel 3:18	And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what seemeth him good.
Samuel 3:19	And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.
Samuel 3:20	And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
Samuel 3:21	And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
Samuel 4:1	And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped beside Eben-ezer: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Samuel 4:2	And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel: and when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines; and they slew of the army in the field about four thousand men.
Samuel 4:3	And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? Let us fetch the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
Samuel 4:4	So the people sent to Shiloh; and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who sitteth above the cherubim: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
Samuel 4:5	And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.
Samuel 4:6	And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What meaneth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
Samuel 4:7	And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
Samuel 4:8	Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness.
Samuel 4:9	Be strong, and quit yourselves like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been to you: quit yourselves like men, and fight.
Samuel 4:10	And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man to his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
Samuel 4:11	And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain.
Samuel 4:12	And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the army, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
Samuel 4:13	And when he came, lo, Eli was sitting upon his seat by the wayside watching; for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
Samuel 4:14	And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And the man hasted, and came and told Eli.
Samuel 4:15	Now Eli was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were set, so that he could not see.
Samuel 4:16	And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the army, and I fled to-day out of the army. And he said, How went the matter, my son?
Samuel 4:17	And he that brought the tidings answered and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
Samuel 4:18	And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that Eli feel from off his seat backward by the side of the gate; and his neck brake, and he died: for he was an old man, and heavy. And he had judged Israel forty years.
Samuel 4:19	And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas wife, was with child, near to be delivered: and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and brought forth; for her pains came upon her.
Samuel 4:20	And about the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast brought forth a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
Samuel 4:21	And she named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel; because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
Samuel 4:22	And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
Samuel 5:1	Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God, and they brought it from Eben-ezer unto Ashdod.
Samuel 5:2	And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
Samuel 5:3	And when they of Ashdod arose early on the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
Samuel 5:4	And when they arose early on the morrow morning, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands lay cut off upon the threshold; only the stump of Dagon was left to him.
Samuel 5:5	Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into Dagon's house, tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
Samuel 5:6	But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with tumors, even Ashdod and the borders thereof.
Samuel 5:7	And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
Samuel 5:8	They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel thither .
Samuel 5:9	And it was so, that, after they had carried it about, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a very great discomfiture: and he smote the men of the city, both small and great; and tumors brake out upon them.
Samuel 5:10	So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, as the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay us and our people.
Samuel 5:11	They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and they said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to its own place, that is slay us not, and our people. For there was a deadly discomfiture throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.
Samuel 5:12	And the men that died not were smitten with the tumors; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
Samuel 6:1	And the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
Samuel 6:2	And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? show us wherewith we shall sent it to its place.
Samuel 6:3	And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but by all means return him a trespass-offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not removed from you.
Samuel 6:4	Then said they, What shall be the trespass-offering which we shall return to him? And they said, Five golden tumors, and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague was on you all, and on your lords.
Samuel 6:5	Wherefore ye shall make images of your tumors, and images of your mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off your land.
Samuel 6:6	Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
Samuel 6:7	Now therefore take and prepare you a new cart, and two milch kine, on which there hath come no yoke; and tie the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
Samuel 6:8	and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart; and put the jewels of gold, which ye return him for a trespass-offering, in a coffer by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go.
Samuel 6:9	And see; if it goeth up by the way of its own border to Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us; it was a chance that happened to us.
Samuel 6:10	And the men did so, and took two milch kine, and tied them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home;
Samuel 6:11	and they put the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer with the mice of gold and the images of their tumors.
Samuel 6:12	And the kine took the straight way by the way to Beth-shemesh; they went along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
Samuel 6:13	And they of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
Samuel 6:14	And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered up the kine for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
Samuel 6:15	And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold were, and put them on the great stone: and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
Samuel 6:16	And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
Samuel 6:17	And these are the golden tumors which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod one, for Gaza one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
Samuel 6:18	and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of country villages, even unto the great stone, whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite.
Samuel 6:19	And he smote of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, he smote of the people seventy men, and fifty thousand men; and the people mourned, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
Samuel 6:20	And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
Samuel 6:21	And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah; come ye down, and fetch it up to you.
Samuel 7:1	And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
Samuel 7:2	And it came to pass, from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
Samuel 7:3	And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye do return unto Jehovah with all your heart, then put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you, and direct your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Samuel 7:4	Then the children of Israel did put away the Baalim and the Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
Samuel 7:5	And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray for you unto Jehovah.
Samuel 7:6	And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
Samuel 7:7	And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Samuel 7:8	And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Samuel 7:9	And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a whole burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
Samuel 7:10	And as Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel; but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten down before Israel.
Samuel 7:11	And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Beth-car.
Samuel 7:12	Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and called the name of it Eben-ezer, saying, Hitherto hath Jehovah helped us.
Samuel 7:13	So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more within the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
Samuel 7:14	And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and the border thereof did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
Samuel 7:15	And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
Samuel 7:16	And he went from year to year in circuit to Beth-el and Gilgal, and Mizpah; and he judged Israel in all those places.
Samuel 7:17	And his return was to Ramah, for there was his house; and there he judged Israel: and he built there an altar unto Jehovah.
Samuel 8:1	And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
Samuel 8:2	Now the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
Samuel 8:3	And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted justice.
Samuel 8:4	Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah;
Samuel 8:5	and they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
Samuel 8:6	But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
Samuel 8:7	And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not be king over them.
Samuel 8:8	According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
Samuel 8:9	Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit thou shalt protest solemnly unto them, and shalt show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
Samuel 8:10	And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king.
Samuel 8:11	And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them unto him, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots;
Samuel 8:12	and he will appoint them unto him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and he will set some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
Samuel 8:13	And he will take your daughters to be perfumers, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.
Samuel 8:14	And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants.
Samuel 8:15	And he will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.
Samuel 8:16	And he will take your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to his work.
Samuel 8:17	He will take the tenth of your flocks: and ye shall be his servants.
Samuel 8:18	And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king whom ye shall have chosen you; and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
Samuel 8:19	But the people refused to hearken unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay: but we will have a king over us,
Samuel 8:20	that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
Samuel 8:21	And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
Samuel 8:22	And Jehovah said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.
Samuel 9:1	Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
Samuel 9:2	And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a young man and a goodly: and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he: from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
Samuel 9:3	And the asses of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seek the asses.
Samuel 9:4	And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they found them not: then they passed through the land of Shaalim, and there they were not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.
Samuel 9:5	When they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return, lest my father leave off caring for the asses, and be anxious for us.
Samuel 9:6	And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a man that is held in honor; all that he saith cometh surely to pass: now let us go thither; peradventure he can tell us concerning our journey whereon we go.
Samuel 9:7	Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we?
Samuel 9:8	And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
Samuel 9:9	(Beforetime in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he said, Come, and let us go to the seer; for he that is now called a Prophet was beforetime called a Seer.)
Samuel 9:10	Then said Saul to his servant, Well said; come, let us go. So they went unto the city where the man of God was.
Samuel 9:11	As they went up the ascent to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
Samuel 9:12	And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before thee: make haste now, for he is come to-day into the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place:
Samuel 9:13	as soon as ye are come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people will not eat until he come, because he doth bless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that are bidden. Now therefore get you up; for at this time ye shall find him.
Samuel 9:14	And they went up to the city; and as they came within the city, behold, Samuel came out toward them, to go up to the high place.
Samuel 9:15	Now Jehovah had revealed unto Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
Samuel 9:16	To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel; and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
Samuel 9:17	And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man of whom I spake to thee! this same shall have authority over my people.
Samuel 9:18	Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house is.
Samuel 9:19	And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer; go up before me unto the high place, for ye shall eat with me to-day: and in the morning I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
Samuel 9:20	And as for thine asses that were lost three days ago, set not they mind on them; for they are found. And for whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for thee, and for all thy father's house?
Samuel 9:21	And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou to me after this manner?
Samuel 9:22	And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the guest-chamber, and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden, who were about thirty persons.
Samuel 9:23	And Samuel said unto the cook, Bring the portion which I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Samuel 9:24	And the cook took up the thigh, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And'samuel'said, Behold, that which hath been reserved! set it before thee and eat; because unto the appointed time hath it been kept for thee, for I said, I have invited the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
Samuel 9:25	And when they were come down from the high place into the city, he communed with Saul upon the housetop.
Samuel 9:26	And they arose early: and it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called to Saul on the housetop, saying, Up, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, abroad.
Samuel 9:27	As they were going down at the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Bid the servant pass on before us (and he passed on), but stand thou still first, that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.
Samuel 10:1	Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not that Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
Samuel 10:2	When thou art departed from me to-day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's sepulchre, in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found; and, lo, thy father hath left off caring for the asses, and is anxious for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
Samuel 10:3	Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the oak of Tabor; and there shall meet thee there three men going up to God to Beth-el, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:
Samuel 10:4	and they will salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt receive of their hand.
Samuel 10:5	After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a timbrel, and a pipe, and a harp, before them; and they will be prophesying:
Samuel 10:6	and the Spirit of Jehovah will come mightily upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
Samuel 10:7	And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do as occasion shall serve thee; for God is with thee.
Samuel 10:8	And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, till I come unto thee, and show thee what thou shalt do.
Samuel 10:9	And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs came to pass that day.
Samuel 10:10	And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came mightily upon him, and he prophesied among them.
Samuel 10:11	And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
Samuel 10:12	And one of the same place answered and said, And who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Samuel 10:13	And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
Samuel 10:14	And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and when we saw that they were not found, we came to Samuel.
Samuel 10:15	And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto you.
Samuel 10:16	And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found. But concerning the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
Samuel 10:17	And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah;
Samuel 10:18	and he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you:
Samuel 10:19	but ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saveth you out of all your calamities and your distresses; and ye have said unto him, Nay , but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
Samuel 10:20	So Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
Samuel 10:21	And he brought the tribe of Benjamin near by their families; and the family of the Matrites was taken; and Saul the son of Kish was taken: but when they sought him, he could not be found.
Samuel 10:22	Therefore they asked of Jehovah further, Is there yet a man to come hither? And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the baggage.
Samuel 10:23	And they ran and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
Samuel 10:24	And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him along all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king.
Samuel 10:25	Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
Samuel 10:26	And Saul also went to his house to Gibeah; and there went with him the host, whose hearts God had touched.
Samuel 10:27	But certain worthless fellows said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no present. But he held his peace.
Samuel 11:1	Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh-gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
Samuel 11:2	And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, On this condition will I make it with you, that all your right eyes be put out; and I will lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
Samuel 11:3	And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days respite, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel; and then, if there be none to save us, we will come out to thee.
Samuel 11:4	Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and spake these words in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
Samuel 11:5	And, behold, Saul came following the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Samuel 11:6	And the Spirit of God came mightily upon Saul when he heard those words, and his anger was kindled greatly.
Samuel 11:7	And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the dread of Jehovah fell on the people, and they came out as one man.
Samuel 11:8	And he numbered them in Bezek; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
Samuel 11:9	And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow, by the time the sun is hot, ye shall have deliverance. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
Samuel 11:10	Therefore the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
Samuel 11:11	And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote the Ammonites until the heat of the day: and it came to pass, that they that remained were scattered, so that not two of them were left together.
Samuel 11:12	And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
Samuel 11:13	And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day; for to-day Jehovah hath wrought deliverance in Israel.
Samuel 11:14	Then said Samuel to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.
Samuel 11:15	And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they offered sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
Samuel 12:1	And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
Samuel 12:2	And now, behold, the king walketh before you; and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you: and I have walked before you from my youth unto this day.
Samuel 12:3	Here I am: witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I taken a ransom to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it you.
Samuel 12:4	And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
Samuel 12:5	And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
Samuel 12:6	And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
Samuel 12:7	Now therefore stand still, that I may plead with you before Jehovah concerning all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did to you and to your fathers.
Samuel 12:8	When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
Samuel 12:9	But they forgat Jehovah their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Samuel 12:10	And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
Samuel 12:11	And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side; and ye dwelt in safety.
Samuel 12:12	And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah your God was your king.
Samuel 12:13	Now therefore behold the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have asked for: and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
Samuel 12:14	If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, and both ye and also the king that reigneth over you be followers of Jehovah your God, well :
Samuel 12:15	but if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then will the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
Samuel 12:16	Now therefore stand still and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
Samuel 12:17	Is it not wheat harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, that he may send thunder and rain; and ye shall know and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking you a king.
Samuel 12:18	So Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
Samuel 12:19	And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not; for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
Samuel 12:20	And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have indeed done all this evil; yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart:
Samuel 12:21	and turn ye not aside; for then would ye go after vain things which cannot profit nor deliver, for they are vain.
Samuel 12:22	For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased Jehovah to make you a people unto himself.
Samuel 12:23	Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah in ceasing to pray for you: but I will instruct you in the good and the right way.
Samuel 12:24	Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for consider how great things he hath done for you.
Samuel 12:25	But if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.
Samuel 13:1	Saul was forty years old when he began to reign; and when he had reigned two years over Israel,
Samuel 13:2	Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in the mount of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
Samuel 13:3	And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba: and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
Samuel 13:4	And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were gathered together after Saul to Gilgal.
Samuel 13:5	And the Philistines assembled themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea-shore in multitude: and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward of Beth-aven.
Samuel 13:6	When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait (for the people were distressed), then the people did hide themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and in coverts, and in pits.
Samuel 13:7	Now some of the Hebrews had gone over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; but as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
Samuel 13:8	And he tarried seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed : but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
Samuel 13:9	And Saul said, Bring hither the burnt-offering to me, and the peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
Samuel 13:10	And it came to pass that, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
Samuel 13:11	And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines assembled themselves together at Michmash;
Samuel 13:12	therefore said I, Now will the Philistines come down upon me to Gilgal, and I have not entreated the favor of Jehovah: I forced myself therefore, and offered the burnt-offering.
Samuel 13:13	And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now would Jehovah have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
Samuel 13:14	But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath appointed him to be prince over his people, because thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
Samuel 13:15	And Samuel arose, and gat him up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
Samuel 13:16	And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, abode in Geba of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
Samuel 13:17	And the spoilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Shual;
Samuel 13:18	and another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and another company turned the way of the border that looketh down upon the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
Samuel 13:19	Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears:
Samuel 13:20	but all the Israelites went down to the Philistines, to sharpen every man his share, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock;
Samuel 13:21	yet they had a file for the mattocks, and for the coulters, and for the forks, and for the axes, and to set the goads.
Samuel 13:22	So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.
Samuel 13:23	And the garrison of the Philistines went out unto the pass of Michmash.
Samuel 14:1	Now it fell upon a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines garrison, that is on yonder side. But he told not his father.
Samuel 14:2	And Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate-tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;
Samuel 14:3	and Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
Samuel 14:4	And between the passes, by which Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines garrison, there was a rocky crag on the one side, and a rocky crag on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
Samuel 14:5	The one crag rose up on the north in front of Michmash, and the other on the south in front of Geba.
Samuel 14:6	And Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised: it may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint to Jehovah to save by many or by few.
Samuel 14:7	And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn thee, behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
Samuel 14:8	Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto the men, and we will disclose ourselves unto them.
Samuel 14:9	If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come to you; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
Samuel 14:10	But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand: and this shall be the sign unto us.
Samuel 14:11	And both of them disclosed themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
Samuel 14:12	And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
Samuel 14:13	And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew them after him.
Samuel 14:14	And that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were half a furrow's length in an acre of land.
Samuel 14:15	And there was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the spoilers, they also trembled; and the earth quaked: so there was an exceeding great trembling.
Samuel 14:16	And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went hither and thither.
Samuel 14:17	Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see who is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
Samuel 14:18	And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was there at that time with the children of Israel.
Samuel 14:19	And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the tumult that was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
Samuel 14:20	And Saul and all the people that were with him were gathered together, and came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture.
Samuel 14:21	Now the Hebrews that were with the Philistines as beforetime, and that went up with them into the camp, from the country round about, even they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan.
Samuel 14:22	Likewise all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
Samuel 14:23	So Jehovah saved Israel that day: and the battle passed over by Beth-aven.
Samuel 14:24	And the men of Israel were distressed that day; for Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until it be evening, and I be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted food.
Samuel 14:25	And all the people came into the forest; and there was honey upon the ground.
Samuel 14:26	And when the people were come unto the forest, behold, the honey dropped: but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
Samuel 14:27	But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with the oath: wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth; and his eyes were enlightened.
Samuel 14:28	Then answered one of the people, and said, Thy father straitly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food this day. And the people were faint.
Samuel 14:29	Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray you, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
Samuel 14:30	How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely to-day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for now hath there been no great slaughter among the Philistines.
Samuel 14:31	And they smote of the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. And the people were very faint;
Samuel 14:32	and the people flew upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people did eat them with the blood.
Samuel 14:33	Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, ye have dealt treacherously: roll a great stone unto me this day.
Samuel 14:34	And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me hither every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
Samuel 14:35	And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: the same was the first altar that he built unto Jehovah.
Samuel 14:36	And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take spoil among them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.
Samuel 14:37	And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
Samuel 14:38	And Saul said, Draw nigh hither, all ye chiefs of the people; and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
Samuel 14:39	For, as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
Samuel 14:40	Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee.
Samuel 14:41	Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Show the right. And Jonathan and Saul were taken by lot ; but the people escaped.
Samuel 14:42	And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
Samuel 14:43	Then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did certainly taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand; and, lo, I must die.
Samuel 14:44	And Saul said, God do so and more also; for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
Samuel 14:45	And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Far from it: as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan, that he died not.
Samuel 14:46	Then Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
Samuel 14:47	Now when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: and whithersoever he turned himself, he put them to the worse.
Samuel 14:48	And he did valiantly, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hands of them that despoiled them.
Samuel 14:49	Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua; and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the first-born Merab, and the name of the younger Michal:
Samuel 14:50	and the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
Samuel 14:51	And Kish was the father of Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
Samuel 14:52	And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw any mighty man, or any valiant man, he took him unto him.
Samuel 15:1	And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
Samuel 15:2	Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I have marked that which Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
Samuel 15:3	Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.
Samuel 15:4	And Saul summoned the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
Samuel 15:5	And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
Samuel 15:6	And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, get you down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for ye showed kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
Samuel 15:7	And Saul smote the Amalekites, from Havilah as thou goest to Shur, that is before Egypt.
Samuel 15:8	And he took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
Samuel 15:9	But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them: but everything that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
Samuel 15:10	Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
Samuel 15:11	It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And Samuel was wroth; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
Samuel 15:12	And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning; and it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a monument, and turned, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
Samuel 15:13	And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
Samuel 15:14	And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?
Samuel 15:15	And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
Samuel 15:16	Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said to me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
Samuel 15:17	And Samuel said, Though thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel;
Samuel 15:18	and Jehovah sent thee on a journey, and said, Go, and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed.
Samuel 15:19	Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly upon the spoil, and didst that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
Samuel 15:20	And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
Samuel 15:21	But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the devoted things, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Samuel 15:22	And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
Samuel 15:23	For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as idolatry and teraphim. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
Samuel 15:24	And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
Samuel 15:25	Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
Samuel 15:26	And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Samuel 15:27	And as Samuel turned about to go away,'saul laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
Samuel 15:28	And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
Samuel 15:29	And also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
Samuel 15:30	Then he said, I have sinned: yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
Samuel 15:31	So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Samuel 15:32	Then said Samuel, Bring ye hither to me Agag the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came unto him cheerfully. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
Samuel 15:33	And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
Samuel 15:34	Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
Samuel 15:35	And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul: and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Samuel 16:1	And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from being king over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go: I will send thee to Jesse the Beth-lehemite; for I have provided me a king among his sons.
Samuel 16:2	And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
Samuel 16:3	And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
Samuel 16:4	And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came to meet him trembling, and said, Comest thou peaceably?
Samuel 16:5	And he said, Peaceably; I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
Samuel 16:6	And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
Samuel 16:7	But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have rejected him: for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh on the heart.
Samuel 16:8	Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
Samuel 16:9	Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
Samuel 16:10	And Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
Samuel 16:11	And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he is keeping the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
Samuel 16:12	And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look upon. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
Samuel 16:13	Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
Samuel 16:14	Now the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
Samuel 16:15	And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
Samuel 16:16	Let our lord now command thy servants, that are before thee, to seek out a man who is a skilful player on the harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
Samuel 16:17	And Saul said unto his servants, Provide me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
Samuel 16:18	Then answered one of the young men, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite, that is skilful in playing, and a mighty man of valor, and a man of war, and prudent in speech, and a comely person; and Jehovah is with him.
Samuel 16:19	Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, who is with the sheep.
Samuel 16:20	And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.
Samuel 16:21	And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
Samuel 16:22	And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
Samuel 16:23	And it came to pass, when the evil'spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
Samuel 17:1	Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle; and they were gathered together at Socoh, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephes-dammim.
Samuel 17:2	And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the vale of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
Samuel 17:3	And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
Samuel 17:4	And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
Samuel 17:5	And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clad with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
Samuel 17:6	And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a javelin of brass between his shoulders.
Samuel 17:7	And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed'six hundred shekels of iron: and his shield-bearer went before him.
Samuel 17:8	And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me.
Samuel 17:9	If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be your servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
Samuel 17:10	And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
Samuel 17:11	And when Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
Samuel 17:12	Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem-judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man was an old man in the days of Saul, stricken in years among men.
Samuel 17:13	And the three eldest sons of Jesse had gone after Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Samuel 17:14	And David was the youngest; and the three eldest followed Saul.
Samuel 17:15	Now David went to and fro from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
Samuel 17:16	And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
Samuel 17:17	And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp to thy brethren;
Samuel 17:18	and bring these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge.
Samuel 17:19	Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the vale of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
Samuel 17:20	And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the place of the wagons, as the host which was going forth to the fight shouted for the battle.
Samuel 17:21	And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, army against army.
Samuel 17:22	And David left his baggage in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran to the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
Samuel 17:23	And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.
Samuel 17:24	And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
Samuel 17:25	And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
Samuel 17:26	And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?
Samuel 17:27	And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
Samuel 17:28	And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.
Samuel 17:29	And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause?
Samuel 17:30	And he turned away from him toward another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.
Samuel 17:31	And when the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Samuel 17:32	And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.
Samuel 17:33	And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth.
Samuel 17:34	And David said unto Saul, Thy servant was keeping his father's sheep; and when there came a lion, or a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock,
Samuel 17:35	I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
Samuel 17:36	Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God.
Samuel 17:37	And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah shall be with thee.
Samuel 17:38	And Saul clad David with his apparel, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he clad him with a coat of mail.
Samuel 17:39	And David girded his sword upon his apparel, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.
Samuel 17:40	And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the shepherd's bag which he had, even in his wallet; and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near to the Philistine.
Samuel 17:41	And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
Samuel 17:42	And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and withal of a fair countenance.
Samuel 17:43	And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
Samuel 17:44	And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
Samuel 17:45	Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a javelin: but I come to thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
Samuel 17:46	This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from off thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel,
Samuel 17:47	and that all this assembly may know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hand.
Samuel 17:48	And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.
Samuel 17:49	And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead; and the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth.
Samuel 17:50	So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Samuel 17:51	Then David ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.
Samuel 17:52	And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou comest to Gai, and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
Samuel 17:53	And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they plundered their camp.
Samuel 17:54	And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
Samuel 17:55	And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.
Samuel 17:56	And the king said, Inquire thou whose son the stripling is.
Samuel 17:57	And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
Samuel 17:58	And Saul said to him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Beth-lehemite.
Samuel 18:1	And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
Samuel 18:2	And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
Samuel 18:3	Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
Samuel 18:4	And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his apparel, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
Samuel 18:5	And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war, and it was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
Samuel 18:6	And it came to pass as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with instruments of music.
Samuel 18:7	And the women sang one to another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, And David his ten thousands.
Samuel 18:8	And Saul was very wroth, and this saying displeased him; and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?
Samuel 18:9	And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
Samuel 18:10	And it came to pass on the morrow, that an evil spirit from God came mightily upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand, as he did day by day. And Saul had his spear in his hand;
Samuel 18:11	and Saul cast the spear; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall. And David avoided out of his presence twice.
Samuel 18:12	And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and was departed from Saul.
Samuel 18:13	Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.
Samuel 18:14	And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
Samuel 18:15	And when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he stood in awe of him.
Samuel 18:16	But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out and came in before them.
Samuel 18:17	And Saul said to David, Behold, my elder daughter Merab, her will I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight Jehovah's battles. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
Samuel 18:18	And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
Samuel 18:19	But it came to pass at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
Samuel 18:20	And Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
Samuel 18:21	And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law a second time.
Samuel 18:22	And Saul commanded his servants,'saying , Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son-in-law.
Samuel 18:23	And Saul's servants spake those words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
Samuel 18:24	And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.
Samuel 18:25	And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
Samuel 18:26	And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law. And the days were not expired;
Samuel 18:27	and David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
Samuel 18:28	And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him.
Samuel 18:29	And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Samuel 18:30	Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it came to pass, as often as they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.
Samuel 19:1	And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David.
Samuel 19:2	And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to slay thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself in the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself:
Samuel 19:3	and I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will commune with my father of thee; and if I see aught, I will tell thee.
Samuel 19:4	And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee-ward very good:
Samuel 19:5	for he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great victory for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice; wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
Samuel 19:6	And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
Samuel 19:7	And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all those things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as beforetime.
Samuel 19:8	And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
Samuel 19:9	And an evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing with his hand.
Samuel 19:10	And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the spear; but he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
Samuel 19:11	And Saul sent messengers unto David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning: and Michal, David's wife, told him, saying, If thou save not thy life to-night, to-morrow thou wilt be slain.
Samuel 19:12	So Michal let David down through the window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
Samuel 19:13	And Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats  hair at the head thereof, and covered it with the clothes.
Samuel 19:14	And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
Samuel 19:15	And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
Samuel 19:16	And when the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim was in the bed, with the pillow of goats  hair at the head thereof.
Samuel 19:17	And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me thus, and let mine enemy go, so that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
Samuel 19:18	Now David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
Samuel 19:19	And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah.
Samuel 19:20	And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them, the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
Samuel 19:21	And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
Samuel 19:22	Then went he also to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Secu: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah.
Samuel 19:23	And he went thither to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
Samuel 19:24	And he also stripped off his clothes, and he also prophesied before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Samuel 20:1	And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
Samuel 20:2	And he said unto him, Far from it; thou shalt not die: behold, my father doeth nothing either great or small, but that he discloseth it unto me; and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Samuel 20:3	And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father knoweth well that I have found favor in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death.
Samuel 20:4	Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee.
Samuel 20:5	And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
Samuel 20:6	If thy father miss me at all, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beth-lehem his city; for it is the yearly sacrifice there for all the family.
Samuel 20:7	If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be wroth, then know that evil is determined by him.
Samuel 20:8	Therefore deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: but if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
Samuel 20:9	And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for if I should at all know that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee?
Samuel 20:10	Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me if perchance thy father answer thee roughly?
Samuel 20:11	And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
Samuel 20:12	And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, be witness : when I have sounded my father about this time to-morrow, or the third day, behold, if there be good toward David, shall I not then send unto thee, and disclose it unto thee?
Samuel 20:13	Jehovah do so to Jonathan, and more also, should it please my father to do thee evil, if I disclose it not unto thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
Samuel 20:14	And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I die not;
Samuel 20:15	but also thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever; no, not when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.
Samuel 20:16	So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David,'saying , And Jehovah will require it at the hand of David's enemies.
Samuel 20:17	And Jonathan caused David to swear again, for the love that he had to him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Samuel 20:18	Then Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon: and thou wilt be missed, because thy seat will be empty.
Samuel 20:19	And when thou hast stayed three days, thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel.
Samuel 20:20	And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.
Samuel 20:21	And, behold, I will send the lad,'saying , Go, find the arrows. If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee; take them, and come; for there is peace to thee and no hurt, as Jehovah liveth.
Samuel 20:22	But if I say thus unto the boy, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
Samuel 20:23	And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah is between thee and me for ever.
Samuel 20:24	So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat food.
Samuel 20:25	And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon the seat by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat by Saul's side: but David's place was empty.
Samuel 20:26	Nevertheless Saul spake not anything that day: for he thought, Something hath befallen him, he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
Samuel 20:27	And it came to pass on the morrow after the new moon, which was the second day , that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither yesterday, nor to-day?
Samuel 20:28	And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Beth-lehem:
Samuel 20:29	and he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our family hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there : and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me get away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he is not come unto the king's table.
Samuel 20:30	Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of a perverse rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and unto the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
Samuel 20:31	For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die.
Samuel 20:32	And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Wherefore should he be put to death? what hath he done?
Samuel 20:33	And Saul cast his spear at him to smite him; whereby Jonathan knew that is was determined of his father to put David to death.
Samuel 20:34	So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no food the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
Samuel 20:35	And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with him.
Samuel 20:36	And he said unto his lad, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
Samuel 20:37	And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
Samuel 20:38	And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not. And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
Samuel 20:39	But the lad knew not anything: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
Samuel 20:40	And Jonathan gave his weapons unto his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
Samuel 20:41	And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward the South, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David exceeded.
Samuel 20:42	And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah shall be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed, for ever. And he arose and departed: and Jonathan went into the city.
Samuel 21:1	Then came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech came to meet David trembling, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
Samuel 21:2	And David said unto Ahimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business whereabout I send thee, and what I have commanded thee: and I have appointed the young men to such and such a place.
Samuel 21:3	Now therefore what is under thy hand? give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatsoever there is present.
Samuel 21:4	And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
Samuel 21:5	And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days; when I came out, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was but a common journey; how much more then to-day shall their vessels be holy?
Samuel 21:6	So the priest gave him holy bread ; for there was no bread there but the showbread, that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
Samuel 21:7	Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Jehovah; and his name was Doeg the Edomite, the chiefest of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
Samuel 21:8	And David said unto Ahimelech, And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste.
Samuel 21:9	And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the vale of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take that, take it; for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that; give it me.
Samuel 21:10	And David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.
Samuel 21:11	And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, And David his ten thousands?
Samuel 21:12	And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
Samuel 21:13	And he changed his behavior before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scrabbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down upon his beard.
Samuel 21:14	Then said Achish unto his servants, Lo, ye see the man is mad; wherefore then have ye brought him to me?
Samuel 21:15	Do I lack madmen, that ye have brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence? shall this fellow come into my house?
Samuel 22:1	David therefore departed thence, and escaped to the cave of Adullam: and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither to him.
Samuel 22:2	And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him; and he became captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
Samuel 22:3	And David went thence to Mizpeh of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with you, till I know what God will do for me.
Samuel 22:4	And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
Samuel 22:5	And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the stronghold; depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Hereth.
Samuel 22:6	And Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were with him: now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the tamarisk-tree in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him.
Samuel 22:7	And Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites; will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, will he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
Samuel 22:8	that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that discloseth to me when my son maketh a league with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or discloseth unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
Samuel 22:9	Then answered Doeg the Edomite, who stood by the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
Samuel 22:10	And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
Samuel 22:11	Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob: and they came all of them to the king.
Samuel 22:12	And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here I am, my lord.
Samuel 22:13	And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
Samuel 22:14	Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, And who among all thy servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is taken into thy council, and is honorable in thy house?
Samuel 22:15	Have I to-day begun to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute anything unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for thy servant knoweth nothing of all this, less or more.
Samuel 22:16	And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
Samuel 22:17	And the king said unto the guard that stood about him, Turn, and slay the priests of Jehovah; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew that he fled, and did not disclose it to me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
Samuel 22:18	And the king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the priests, and he slew on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod.
Samuel 22:19	And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and sucklings, and oxen and asses and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
Samuel 22:20	And one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
Samuel 22:21	And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain Jehovah's priests.
Samuel 22:22	And David said unto Abiathar, I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I have occasioned the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
Samuel 22:23	Abide thou with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: for with me thou shalt be in safeguard.
Samuel 23:1	And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and are robbing the threshing-floors.
Samuel 23:2	Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
Samuel 23:3	And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?
Samuel 23:4	Then David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Samuel 23:5	And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and slew them with a great slaughter. So David save the inhabitants of Keilah.
Samuel 23:6	And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
Samuel 23:7	And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a town that hath gates and bars.
Samuel 23:8	And Saul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
Samuel 23:9	And David knew that Saul was devising mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
Samuel 23:10	Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
Samuel 23:11	Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
Samuel 23:12	Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver up to me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
Samuel 23:13	Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth.
Samuel 23:14	And David abode in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.
Samuel 23:15	And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in the wood.
Samuel 23:16	And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
Samuel 23:17	And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.
Samuel 23:18	And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
Samuel 23:19	Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the wood, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the desert?
Samuel 23:20	Now therefore, O king, come down, according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him up into the king's hand.
Samuel 23:21	And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have had compassion on me.
Samuel 23:22	Go, I pray you, make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his haunt is, and who hath seen him there; for it is told me that he dealeth very subtly.
Samuel 23:23	See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking-places where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me of a certainty, and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.
Samuel 23:24	And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the desert.
Samuel 23:25	And Saul and his men went to seek him. And they told David: wherefore he came down to the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that , he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
Samuel 23:26	And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to get away for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
Samuel 23:27	But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have made a raid upon the land.
Samuel 23:28	So Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called that place Sela-hammahlekoth.
Samuel 23:29	And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the strongholds of En-gedi.
Samuel 24:1	And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
Samuel 24:2	Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
Samuel 24:3	And he came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet. Now David and his men were abiding in the innermost parts of the cave.
Samuel 24:4	And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily.
Samuel 24:5	And it came to pass afterward, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
Samuel 24:6	And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my lord, Jehovah's anointed, to put forth my hand against him, seeing he is Jehovah's anointed.
Samuel 24:7	So David checked his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
Samuel 24:8	David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
Samuel 24:9	And David said to Saul, Wherefore hearkenest thou to men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
Samuel 24:10	Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had delivered thee to-day into my hand in the cave: and some bade me kill thee; but mine eye'spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is Jehovah's anointed.
Samuel 24:11	Moreover, my father, see, yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and killed thee not, know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee, though thou huntest after my life to take it.
Samuel 24:12	Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Samuel 24:13	As saith the proverb of the ancients, Out of the wicked cometh forth wickedness; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Samuel 24:14	After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea.
Samuel 24:15	Jehovah therefore be judge, and give sentence between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
Samuel 24:16	And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Samuel 24:17	And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rendered unto me good, whereas I have rendered unto thee evil.
Samuel 24:18	And thou hast declared this day how that thou hast dealt well with me, forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou killedst me not.
Samuel 24:19	For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that which thou hast done unto me this day.
Samuel 24:20	And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
Samuel 24:21	Swear now therefore unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
Samuel 24:22	And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the stronghold.
Samuel 25:1	And Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
Samuel 25:2	And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
Samuel 25:3	Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance: but the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.
Samuel 25:4	And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
Samuel 25:5	And David sent ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name:
Samuel 25:6	and thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity , Peace be unto thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
Samuel 25:7	And now I have heard that thou hast shearers: thy shepherds have now been with us, and we did them no hurt, neither was there aught missing unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.
Samuel 25:8	Ask thy young men, and they will tell thee: wherefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes; for we come in a good day: give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand, unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
Samuel 25:9	And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David, and ceased.
Samuel 25:10	And Nabal answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now-a-days that break away every man from his master.
Samuel 25:11	Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men of whom I know not whence they are?
Samuel 25:12	So David's young men turned on their way, and went back, and came and told him according to all these words.
Samuel 25:13	And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the baggage.
Samuel 25:14	But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he railed at them.
Samuel 25:15	But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything, as long as we went with them, when we were in the fields:
Samuel 25:16	they were a wall unto us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
Samuel 25:17	Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his house: for he is such a worthless fellow, that one cannot speak to him.
Samuel 25:18	Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.
Samuel 25:19	And she said unto her young men, Go on before me; behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal.
Samuel 25:20	And it was so, as she rode on her ass, and came down by the covert of the mountain, that, behold, David and his men came down toward her; and she met them.
Samuel 25:21	Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that pertained unto him: and he hath returned me evil for good.
Samuel 25:22	God do so unto the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that pertain to him by the morning light so much as one man-child.
Samuel 25:23	And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and alighted from her ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground.
Samuel 25:24	And she fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me be the iniquity; and let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear thou the words of thy handmaid.
Samuel 25:25	Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this worthless fellow, even Nabal; for as his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name, and folly is with him: but I thy handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
Samuel 25:26	Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withholden thee from bloodguiltiness, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now therefore let thine enemies, and them that seek evil to my lord, be as Nabal.
Samuel 25:27	And now this present which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
Samuel 25:28	Forgive, I pray thee, the trespass of thy handmaid: for Jehovah will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah; and evil shall not be found in thee all thy days.
Samuel 25:29	And though men be risen up to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul, yet the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out, as from the hollow of a sling.
Samuel 25:30	And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done to my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee prince over Israel,
Samuel 25:31	that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor offence of heart unto my lord, either that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself. And when Jehovah shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
Samuel 25:32	And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me:
Samuel 25:33	and blessed be thy discretion, and blessed be thou, that hast kept me this day from bloodguiltiness, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
Samuel 25:34	For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath withholden me from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning light so much as one man-child.
Samuel 25:35	So David received of her hand that which she had brought him: and he said unto her, Go up in peace to thy house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person.
Samuel 25:36	And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
Samuel 25:37	And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
Samuel 25:38	And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote Nabal, so that he died.
Samuel 25:39	And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil: and the evil-doing of Nabal hath Jehovah returned upon his own head. And David sent and spake concerning Abigail, to take her to him to wife.
Samuel 25:40	And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee to him to wife.
Samuel 25:41	And she arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, Behold, thy handmaid is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
Samuel 25:42	And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of hers that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
Samuel 25:43	David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they became both of them his wives.
Samuel 25:44	Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
Samuel 26:1	And the Ziphites came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert?
Samuel 26:2	Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
Samuel 26:3	And Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert, by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
Samuel 26:4	David therefore sent out spies, and understood that Saul was come of a certainty.
Samuel 26:5	And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host: and Saul lay within the place of the wagons, and the people were encamped round about him.
Samuel 26:6	Then answered David and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
Samuel 26:7	So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the place of the wagons, with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay round about him.
Samuel 26:8	Then said Abishai to David, God hath delivered up thine enemy into thy hand this day: now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear to the earth at one stroke, and I will not smite him the second time.
Samuel 26:9	And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not; for who can put forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
Samuel 26:10	And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall go down into battle and perish.
Samuel 26:11	Jehovah forbid that I should put forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed: but now take, I pray thee, the spear that is at his head, and the cruse of water, and let us go.
Samuel 26:12	So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's head; and they gat them away: and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither did any awake; for they were all asleep, because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
Samuel 26:13	Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off; a great space being between them;
Samuel 26:14	and David cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?
Samuel 26:15	And David said to Abner, Art not thou a valiant man? and who is like to thee in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept watch over thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in to destroy the king thy lord.
Samuel 26:16	This thing is not good that thou hast done. As Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept watch over your lord, Jehovah's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his head.
Samuel 26:17	And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
Samuel 26:18	And he said, Wherefore doth my lord pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
Samuel 26:19	Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If it be Jehovah that hath stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering: but if it be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah: for they have driven me out this day that I should not cleave unto the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
Samuel 26:20	Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of Jehovah: for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one doth hunt a partridge in the mountains.
Samuel 26:21	Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee harm, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
Samuel 26:22	And David answered and said, Behold the spear, O king! let then one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Samuel 26:23	And Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; forasmuch as Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to-day, and I would not put forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
Samuel 26:24	And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation.
Samuel 26:25	Then Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do mightily, and shalt surely prevail. So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.
Samuel 27:1	And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will despair of me, to seek me any more in all the borders of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
Samuel 27:2	And David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, unto Achish the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
Samuel 27:3	And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
Samuel 27:4	And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath: and he sought no more again for him.
Samuel 27:5	And David said unto Achish, If now I have found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the country, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
Samuel 27:6	Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day: wherefore Ziklag pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
Samuel 27:7	And the number of the days that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
Samuel 27:8	And David and his men went up, and made a raid upon the Geshurites, and the Girzites, and the Amalekites; for those nations were the inhabitants of the land, who were of old, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
Samuel 27:9	And David smote the land, and saved neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel; and he returned, and came to Achish.
Samuel 27:10	And Achish said, Against whom have ye made a raid to-day? And David said, Against the South of Judah, and against the South of the Jerahmeelites, and against the South of the Kenites.
Samuel 27:11	And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring them to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell of us, saying, So did David, and so hath been his manner all the while he hath dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
Samuel 27:12	And Achish believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
Samuel 28:1	And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their hosts together for warfare, to fight with Israel. And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me in the host, thou and thy men.
Samuel 28:2	And David said to Achish, Therefore thou shalt know what thy servant will do. And Achish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
Samuel 28:3	Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
Samuel 28:4	And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
Samuel 28:5	And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
Samuel 28:6	And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, Jehovah answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
Samuel 28:7	Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at En-dor.
Samuel 28:8	And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and he said, Divine unto me, I pray thee, by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whomsoever I shall name unto thee.
Samuel 28:9	And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
Samuel 28:10	And Saul sware to her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing.
Samuel 28:11	Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
Samuel 28:12	And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? for thou art Saul.
Samuel 28:13	And the king said unto her, Be not afraid: for what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
Samuel 28:14	And he said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and did obeisance.
Samuel 28:15	And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
Samuel 28:16	And Samuel said, Wherefore then dost thou ask of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine adversary?
Samuel 28:17	And Jehovah hath done unto thee, as he spake by me: and Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, even to David.
Samuel 28:18	Because thou obeyedst not the voice of Jehovah, and didst not execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
Samuel 28:19	Moreover Jehovah will deliver Israel also with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: Jehovah will deliver the host of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines.
Samuel 28:20	Then Saul fell straightway his full length upon the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
Samuel 28:21	And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spakest unto me.
Samuel 28:22	Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.
Samuel 28:23	But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, constrained him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
Samuel 28:24	And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted, and killed it; and she took flour, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof:
Samuel 28:25	and she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that night.
Samuel 29:1	Now the Philistines gathered together all their hosts to Aphek: and the Israelites encamped by the fountain which is in Jezreel.
Samuel 29:2	And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands; and David and his men passed on in the rearward with Achish.
Samuel 29:3	Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews here ? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away unto me unto this day?
Samuel 29:4	But he princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man return, that he may go back to his place where thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he become an adversary to us: for wherewith should this fellow reconcile himself unto his lord? should it not be with the heads of these men?
Samuel 29:5	Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, And David his ten thousands?
Samuel 29:6	Then Achish called David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight; for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords favor thee not.
Samuel 29:7	Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.
Samuel 29:8	And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been before thee unto this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
Samuel 29:9	And Achish answered and said to David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Samuel 29:10	Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with the servants of thy lord that are come with thee; and as soon as ye are up early in the morning, and have light, depart.
Samuel 29:11	So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
Samuel 30:1	And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid upon the South, and upon Ziklag, and had smitten Ziklag, and burned it with fire,
Samuel 30:2	and had taken captive the women and all that were therein, both small and great: they slew not any, but carried them off, and went their way.
Samuel 30:3	And when David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
Samuel 30:4	Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
Samuel 30:5	And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
Samuel 30:6	And David was greatly distressed; for the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
Samuel 30:7	And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David.
Samuel 30:8	And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, If I pursue after this troop, shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Pursue; for thou shalt surely overtake them , and shalt without fail recover all .
Samuel 30:9	So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those that were left behind stayed.
Samuel 30:10	But David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred stayed behind, who were so faint that they could not go over the brook Besor.
Samuel 30:11	And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they gave him water to drink.
Samuel 30:12	And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again to him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.
Samuel 30:13	And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days ago I fell sick.
Samuel 30:14	We made a raid upon the South of the Cherethites, and upon that which belongeth to Judah, and upon the South of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag with fire.
Samuel 30:15	And David said to him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me up into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
Samuel 30:16	And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad over all the ground, eating and drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Samuel 30:17	And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day: and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who rode upon camels and fled.
Samuel 30:18	And David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken; and David rescued his two wives.
Samuel 30:19	And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything that they had taken to them: David brought back all.
Samuel 30:20	And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before those other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
Samuel 30:21	And David came to the two hundred men, who were so faint that they could not follow David, whom also they had made to abide at the brook Besor; and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and when David came near to the people, he saluted them.
Samuel 30:22	Then answered all the wicked men and base fellows, of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that he may lead them away, and depart.
Samuel 30:23	Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given unto us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the troop that came against us into our hand.
Samuel 30:24	And who will hearken unto you in this matter? for as his share is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his share be that tarrieth by the baggage: they shall share alike.
Samuel 30:25	And it was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
Samuel 30:26	And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
Samuel 30:27	To them that were in Beth-el, and to them that were in Ramoth of the South, and to them that were in Jattir,
Samuel 30:28	and to them that were in Aroer, and to them that were in Siphmoth, and to them that were in Eshtemoa,
Samuel 30:29	and to them that were in Racal, and to them that were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them that were in the cities of the Kenites,
Samuel 30:30	and to them that were in Hormah, and to them that were in Bor-ashan, and to them that were in Athach,
Samuel 30:31	and to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were wont to haunt.
Samuel 31:1	Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Samuel 31:2	And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
Samuel 31:3	And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly distressed by reason of the archers.
Samuel 31:4	Then said Saul to his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
Samuel 31:5	And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died with him.
Samuel 31:6	So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day together.
Samuel 31:7	And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
Samuel 31:8	And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
Samuel 31:9	And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings unto the house of their idols, and to the people.
Samuel 31:10	And they put his armor in the house of the Ashtaroth; and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan.
Samuel 31:11	And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard concerning him that which the Philistines had done to Saul,
Samuel 31:12	all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
Samuel 31:13	And they took their bones, and buried them under the tamarisk-tree in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Kings 1:1	Now king David was old and stricken in years; and they covered him with clothes, but he gat no heat.
Kings 1:2	Wherefore his servants said unto him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin: and let her stand before the king, and cherish him; and let her lie in thy bosom, that my lord the king may get heat.
Kings 1:3	So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the borders of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king.
Kings 1:4	And the damsel was very fair; and she cherished the king, and ministered to him; but the king knew her not.
Kings 1:5	Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will be king: and he prepared him chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
Kings 1:6	And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so? and he was also a very goodly man; and he was born after Absalom.
Kings 1:7	And he conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest: and they following Adonijah helped him.
Kings 1:8	But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men that belonged to David, were not with Adonijah.
Kings 1:9	And Adonijah slew sheep and oxen and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En-rogel; and he called all his brethren, the king's sons, and all the men of Judah, the king's servants:
Kings 1:10	but Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother, he called not.
Kings 1:11	Then Nathan spake unto Bath-sheba the mother of Solomon, saying, Hast thou not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith doth reign, and David our lord knoweth it not?
Kings 1:12	Now therefore come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel, that thou mayest save thine own life, and the life of thy son Solomon.
Kings 1:13	Go and get thee in unto king David, and say unto him, Didst not thou, my lord, O king, swear unto thy handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? why then doth Adonijah reign?
Kings 1:14	Behold, while thou yet talkest there with the king, I also will come in after thee, and confirm thy words.
Kings 1:15	And Bath-sheba went in unto the king into the chamber: and the king was very old; and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering unto the king.
Kings 1:16	And Bath-sheba bowed, and did obeisance unto the king. And the king said, What wouldest thou?
Kings 1:17	And she said unto him, My lord, thou swarest by Jehovah thy God unto thy handmaid,'saying , Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.
Kings 1:18	And now, behold, Adonijah reigneth; and thou, my lord the king, knowest it not:
Kings 1:19	and he hath slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and hath called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the host; but Solomon thy servant hath he not called.
Kings 1:20	And thou, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are upon thee, that thou shouldest tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him.
Kings 1:21	Otherwise it will come to pass, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders.
Kings 1:22	And, lo, while she yet talked with the king, Nathan the prophet came in.
Kings 1:23	And they told the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet. And when he was come in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground.
Kings 1:24	And Nathan said, My lord, O king, hast thou said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?
Kings 1:25	For he is gone down this day, and hath slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and hath called all the king's sons, and the captains of the host, and Abiathar the priest; and, behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and say, Long live king Adonijah.
Kings 1:26	But me, even me thy servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and thy servant Solomon, hath he not called.
Kings 1:27	Is this thing done by my lord the king, and thou hast not showed unto thy servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?
Kings 1:28	Then king David answered and said, Call to me Bath-sheba. And she came into the king's presence, and stood before the king.
Kings 1:29	And the king sware, and said, As Jehovah liveth, who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity,
Kings 1:30	verily as I sware unto thee by Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead; verily so will I do this day.
Kings 1:31	Then Bath-sheba bowed with her face to the earth, and did obeisance to the king, and said, Let my lord king David live for ever.
Kings 1:32	And king David said, Call to me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada. And they came before the king.
Kings 1:33	And the king said unto them, Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride upon mine own mule, and bring him down to Gihon:
Kings 1:34	and let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel; and blow ye the trumpet, and say, Long live king Solomon.
Kings 1:35	Then ye shall come up after him, and he shall come and sit upon my throne; for he shall be king in my stead; and I have appointed him to be prince over Israel and over Judah.
Kings 1:36	And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king, and said, Amen: Jehovah, the God of my lord the king, say so too .
Kings 1:37	As Jehovah hath been with my lord the king, even so be he with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord king David.
Kings 1:38	So Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, went down, and caused Solomon to ride upon king David's mule, and brought him to Gihon.
Kings 1:39	And Zadok the priest took the horn of oil out of the Tent, and anointed Solomon. And they blew the trumpet; and all the people said, Long live king Solomon.
Kings 1:40	And all the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great joy, so that the earth rent with the sound of them.
Kings 1:41	And Adonijah and all the guests that were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, Wherefore is this noise of the city being in an uproar?
Kings 1:42	While he yet spake, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came: and Adonijah said, Come in; for thou art a worthy man, and bringest good tidings.
Kings 1:43	And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Verily our lord king David hath made Solomon king:
Kings 1:44	and the king hath sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule;
Kings 1:45	and Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon; and they are come up from thence rejoicing, so that the city rang again. This is the noise that ye have heard.
Kings 1:46	And also Solomon sitteth on the throne of the kingdom.
Kings 1:47	And moreover the king's servants came to bless our lord king David, saying, Thy God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and make his throne greater than thy throne: and the king bowed himself upon the bed.
Kings 1:48	And also thus said the king, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath given one to sit on my throne this day, mine eyes even seeing it.
Kings 1:49	And all the guests of Adonijah were afraid, and rose up, and went every man his way.
Kings 1:50	And Adonijah feared because of Solomon; and he arose, and went, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
Kings 1:51	And it was told Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah feareth king Solomon; for, lo, he hath laid hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let king Solomon swear unto me first that he will not slay his servant with the sword.
Kings 1:52	And Solomon said, If he shall show himself a worthy man, there shall not a hair of him fall to the earth; but if wickedness be found in him, he shall die.
Kings 1:53	So king Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and did obeisance to king Solomon; and Solomon said unto him, Go to thy house.
Kings 2:1	Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die; and he charged Solomon his son, saying,
Kings 2:2	I am going the way of all the earth: be thou strong therefore, and show thyself a man;
Kings 2:3	and keep the charge of Jehovah thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself.
Kings 2:4	That Jehovah may establish his word which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy children take heed to their way, to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail thee (said he) a man on the throne of Israel.
Kings 2:5	Moreover thou knowest also what Joab the son of Zeruiah did unto me, even what he did to the two captains of the hosts of Israel, unto Abner the son of Ner, and unto Amasa the son of Jether, whom he slew, and shed the blood of war in peace, and put the blood of war upon his girdle that was about his loins, and in his shoes that were on his feet.
Kings 2:6	Do therefore according to thy wisdom, and let not his hoar head go down to Sheol in peace.
Kings 2:7	But show kindness unto the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be of those that eat at thy table; for so they came to me when I fled from Absalom thy brother.
Kings 2:8	And, behold, there is with thee Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite, of Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim; but he came down to meet me at the Jordan, and I sware to him by Jehovah, saying, I will not put thee to death with the sword.
Kings 2:9	Now therefore hold him not guiltless, for thou art a wise man; and thou wilt know what thou oughtest to do unto him, and thou shalt bring his hoar head down to Sheol with blood.
Kings 2:10	And David slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David.
Kings 2:11	And the days that David reigned over Israel were forty years; seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in Jerusalem.
Kings 2:12	And Solomon sat upon the throne of David his father; and his kingdom was established greatly.
Kings 2:13	Then Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bath-sheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, Comest thou peaceably? And he said, Peaceably.
Kings 2:14	He said moreover, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And she said, Say on.
Kings 2:15	And he said, Thou knowest that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reign: howbeit the kingdom is turned about, and is become my brother's; for it was his from Jehovah.
Kings 2:16	And now I ask one petition of thee; deny me not. And she said unto him, Say on.
Kings 2:17	And he said, Speak, I pray thee, unto Solomon the king (for he will not say thee nay), that he give me Abishag the Shunammite to wife.
Kings 2:18	And Bath-sheba said, Well; I will speak for thee unto the king.
Kings 2:19	Bath-sheba therefore went unto king Solomon, to speak unto him for Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, and bowed himself unto her, and sat down on his throne, and caused a throne to be set for the king's mother; and she sat on his right hand.
Kings 2:20	Then she said, I ask one small petition of thee; deny me not. And the king said unto her, Ask on, my mother; for I will not deny thee.
Kings 2:21	And she said, Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah thy brother to wife.
Kings 2:22	And king Solomon answered and said unto his mother, And why dost thou ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? ask for him the kingdom also; for he is mine elder brother; even for him, and for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah.
Kings 2:23	Then king Solomon sware by Jehovah, saying, God do so to me, and more also, if Adonijah hath not spoken this word against his own life.
Kings 2:24	Now therefore as Jehovah liveth, who hath established me, and set me on the throne of David my father, and who hath made me a house, as he promised, surely Adonijah shall be put to death this day.
Kings 2:25	And king Solomon sent by Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he fell upon him, so that he died.
Kings 2:26	And unto Abiathar the priest said the king, Get thee to Anathoth, unto thine own fields; for thou art worthy of death: but I will not at this time put thee to death, because thou barest the ark of the Lord Jehovah before David my father, and because thou wast afflicted in all wherein my father was afflicted.
Kings 2:27	So Solomon thrust out Abiathar from being priest unto Jehovah, that he might fulfil the word of Jehovah, which he spake concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.
Kings 2:28	And the tidings came to Joab; for Joab had turned after Adonijah, though he turned not after Absalom. And Joab fled unto the Tent of Jehovah, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
Kings 2:29	And it was told king Solomon, Joab is fled unto the Tent of Jehovah, and, behold, he is by the altar. Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, Go, fall upon him.
Kings 2:30	And Benaiah came to the Tent of Jehovah, and said unto him, Thus saith the king, Come forth. And he said, Nay; but I will die here. And Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, Thus said Joab, and thus he answered me.
Kings 2:31	And the king said unto him, Do as he hath said, and fall upon him, and bury him; that thou mayest take away the blood, which Joab shed without cause, from me and from my father's house.
Kings 2:32	And Jehovah will return his blood upon his own head, because he fell upon two men more righteous and better than he, and slew them with the sword, and my father David knew it not, to wit , Abner the son of Ner, captain of the host of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, captain of the host of Judah.
Kings 2:33	So shall their blood return upon the head of Joab, and upon the head of his seed for ever: but unto David, and unto his seed, and unto his house, and unto his throne, shall there be peace for ever from Jehovah.
Kings 2:34	Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up, and fell upon him, and slew him; and he was buried in his own house in the wilderness.
Kings 2:35	And the king put Benaiah the son of Jehoiada in his room over the host; and Zadok the priest did the king put in the room of Abiathar.
Kings 2:36	And the king sent and called for Shimei, and said unto him, Build thee a house in Jerusalem, and dwell there, and go not forth thence any whither.
Kings 2:37	For on the day thou goest out, and passest over the brook Kidron, know thou for certain that thou shalt surely die: thy blood shall be upon thine own head.
Kings 2:38	And Shimei said unto the king, The saying is good: as my lord the king hath said, so will thy servant do. And Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days.
Kings 2:39	And it came to pass at the end of three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away unto Achish, son of Maacah, king of Gath. And they told Shimei, saying, Behold, thy servants are in Gath.
Kings 2:40	And Shimei arose, and saddled his ass, and went to Gath to Achish, to seek his servants; and Shimei went, and brought his servants from Gath.
Kings 2:41	And it was told Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and was come again.
Kings 2:42	And the king sent and called for Shimei, and said unto him, Did I not adjure thee by Jehovah, and protest unto thee, saying, Know for certain, that on the day thou goest out, and walkest abroad any whither, thou shalt surely die? and thou saidst unto me, The saying that I have heard is good.
Kings 2:43	Why then hast thou not kept the oath of Jehovah, and the commandment that I have charged thee with?
Kings 2:44	The king said moreover to Shimei, Thou knowest all the wickedness which thy heart is privy to, that thou didst to David my father: therefore Jehovah shall return thy wickedness upon thine own head.
Kings 2:45	But king Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before Jehovah for ever.
Kings 2:46	So the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he went out, and fell upon him, so that he died. And the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon.
Kings 3:1	And Solomon made affinity with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and took Pharaoh's daughter, and brought her into the city of David, until he had made an end of building his own house, and the house of Jehovah, and the wall of Jerusalem round about.
Kings 3:2	Only the people sacrificed in the high places, because there was no house built for the name of Jehovah until those days.
Kings 3:3	And Solomon loved Jehovah, walking in the statutes of David his father: only he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
Kings 3:4	And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there; for that was the great high place: a thousand burnt-offerings did Solomon offer upon that altar.
Kings 3:5	In Gibeon Jehovah appeared to Solomon in a dream by night; and God said, Ask what I shall give thee.
Kings 3:6	And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David my father great lovingkindness, according as he walked before thee in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee; and thou hast kept for him this great lovingkindness, that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day.
Kings 3:7	And now, O Jehovah my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father: and I am but a little child; I know not how to go out or come in.
Kings 3:8	And thy servant is in the midst of thy people which thou hast chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude.
Kings 3:9	Give thy servant therefore an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and evil; for who is able to judge this thy great people?
Kings 3:10	And the speech pleased the Lord, that Solomon had asked this thing.
Kings 3:11	And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life, neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies, but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern justice;
Kings 3:12	behold, I have done according to thy word: lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there hath been none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee.
Kings 3:13	And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee, all thy days.
Kings 3:14	And if thou wilt walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did walk, then I will lengthen thy days.
Kings 3:15	And Solomon awoke; and, behold, it was a dream: and he came to Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and offered up burnt-offerings, and offered peace-offerings, and made a feast to all his servants.
Kings 3:16	Then there came two women that were harlots, unto the king, and stood before him.
Kings 3:17	And the one woman said, Oh, my lord, I and this woman dwell in one house; and I was delivered of a child with her in the house.
Kings 3:18	And it came to pass the third day after I was delivered, that this woman was delivered also; and we were together; there was no stranger with us in the house, save we two in the house.
Kings 3:19	And this woman's child died in the night, because she lay upon it.
Kings 3:20	And she arose at midnight, and took my son from beside me, while thy handmaid slept, and laid it in her bosom, and laid her dead child in my bosom.
Kings 3:21	And when I rose in the morning to give my child suck, behold, it was dead; but when I had looked at it in the morning, behold, it was not my son, whom I did bear.
Kings 3:22	And the other woman said, Nay; but the living is my son, and the dead is thy son. And this said, No; but the dead is thy son, and the living is my son. Thus they spake before the king.
Kings 3:23	Then said the king, The one saith, This is my son that liveth, and thy son is the dead: and the other saith, Nay; but thy son is the dead, and my son is the living.
Kings 3:24	And the king said, Fetch me a sword. And they brought a sword before the king.
Kings 3:25	And the king said, Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one, and half to the other.
Kings 3:26	Then spake the woman whose the living child was unto the king, for her heart yearned over her son, and she said, Oh, my lord, give her the living child, and in no wise slay it. But the other said, It shall be neither mine nor thine; divide it.
Kings 3:27	Then the king answered and said, Give her the living child, and in no wise slay it: she is the mother thereof.
Kings 3:28	And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged; and they feared the king: for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him, to do justice.
Kings 4:1	And king Solomon was king over all Israel.
Kings 4:2	And these were the princes whom he had: Azariah the son of Zadok, the priest;
Kings 4:3	Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder;
Kings 4:4	and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the host; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
Kings 4:5	and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers; and Zabud the son of Nathan was chief minister, and the king's friend;
Kings 4:6	and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the men subject to taskwork.
Kings 4:7	And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, who provided victuals for the king and his household: each man had to make provision for a month in the year.
Kings 4:8	And these are their names: Ben-hur, in the hill-country of Ephraim;
Kings 4:9	Ben-deker, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan;
Kings 4:10	Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (to him pertained'socoh, and all the land of Hepher);
Kings 4:11	Ben-abinadab, in all the height of Dor (he had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife);
Kings 4:12	Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean which is beside Zarethan, beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, as far as beyond Jokmeam;
Kings 4:13	Ben-geber, in Ramoth-gilead (to him pertained the towns of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; even to him pertained the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, threescore great cities with walls and brazen bars);
Kings 4:14	Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim;
Kings 4:15	Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he also took Basemath the daughter of Solomon to wife);
Kings 4:16	Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;
Kings 4:17	Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar;
Kings 4:18	Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin;
Kings 4:19	Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan; and he was the only officer that was in the land.
Kings 4:20	Judah and Israel were many as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry.
Kings 4:21	And Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt: they brought tribute, and served Solomon all the days of his life.
Kings 4:22	And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal,
Kings 4:23	ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and a hundred sheep, besides harts, and gazelles, and roebucks, and fatted fowl.
Kings 4:24	For he had dominion over all the region on this side the River, from Tiphsah even to Gaza, over all the kings on this side the River: and he had peace on all sides round about him.
Kings 4:25	And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig-tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon.
Kings 4:26	And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
Kings 4:27	And those officers provided victuals for king Solomon, and for all that came unto king Solomon's table, every man in his month; they let nothing be lacking.
Kings 4:28	Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds brought they unto the place where the officers were, every man according to his charge.
Kings 4:29	And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea-shore.
Kings 4:30	And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
Kings 4:31	For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all the nations round about.
Kings 4:32	And he spake three thousand proverbs; and his songs were a thousand and five.
Kings 4:33	And he spake of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall; he spake also of beasts, and of birds, and of creeping things, and of fishes.
Kings 4:34	And there came of all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, who had heard of his wisdom.
Kings 5:1	And Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants unto Solomon; for he had heard that they had anointed him king in the room of his father: for Hiram was ever a lover of David.
Kings 5:2	And Solomon sent to Hiram, saying,
Kings 5:3	Thou knowest how that David my father could not build a house for the name of Jehovah his God for the wars which were about him on every side, until Jehovah put them under the soles of his feet.
Kings 5:4	But now Jehovah my God hath given me rest on every side; there is neither adversary, nor evil occurrence.
Kings 5:5	And, behold, I purpose to build a house for the name of Jehovah my God, as Jehovah spake unto David my father, saying, Thy son, whom I will set upon thy throne in thy room, he shall build the house for my name.
Kings 5:6	Now therefore command thou that they cut me cedar-trees out of Lebanon; and my servants shall be with thy servants; and I will give thee hire for thy servants according to all that thou shalt say: for thou knowest that there is not among us any that knoweth how to cut timber like unto the Sidonians.
Kings 5:7	And it came to pass, when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, that he rejoiced greatly, and said, Blessed be Jehovah this day, who hath given unto David a wise son over this great people.
Kings 5:8	And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, I have heard the message which thou hast sent unto me: I will do all thy desire concerning timber of cedar, and concerning timber of fir.
Kings 5:9	My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon unto the sea; and I will make them into rafts to go by sea unto the place that thou shalt appoint me, and will cause them to be broken up there, and thou shalt receive them; and thou shalt accomplish my desire, in giving food for my household.
Kings 5:10	So Hiram gave Solomon timber of cedar and timber of fir according to all his desire.
Kings 5:11	And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat for food to his household, and twenty measures of pure oil: thus gave Solomon to Hiram year by year.
Kings 5:12	And Jehovah gave Solomon wisdom, as he promised him; and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon; and they two made a league together.
Kings 5:13	And king Solomon raised a levy out of all Israel; and the levy was thirty thousand men.
Kings 5:14	And he sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month by courses; a month they were in Lebanon, and two months at home; and Adoniram was over the men subject to taskwork.
Kings 5:15	And Solomon had threescore and ten thousand that bare burdens, and fourscore thousand that were hewers in the mountains;
Kings 5:16	besides Solomon's chief officers that were over the work, three thousand and three hundred, who bare rule over the people that wrought in the work.
Kings 5:17	And the king commanded, and they hewed out great stones, costly stones, to lay the foundation of the house with wrought stone.
Kings 5:18	And Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders and the Gebalites did fashion them, and prepared the timber and the stones to build the house.
Kings 6:1	And it came to pass in the four hundred and eightieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month Ziv, which is the second month, that he began to build the house of Jehovah.
Kings 6:2	And the house which king Solomon built for Jehovah, the length thereof was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits , and the height thereof thirty cubits.
Kings 6:3	And the porch before the temple of the house, twenty cubits was the length thereof, according to the breadth of the house; and ten cubits was the breadth thereof before the house.
Kings 6:4	And for the house he made windows of fixed lattice-work.
Kings 6:5	And against the wall of the house he built stories round about, against the walls of the house round about, both of the temple and of the oracle; and he made side-chambers round about.
Kings 6:6	The nethermost story was five cubits broad, and the middle was six cubits broad, and the third was seven cubits broad; for on the outside he made offsets in the wall of the house round about, that the beams'should not have hold in the walls of the house.
Kings 6:7	And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made ready at the quarry; and there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building.
Kings 6:8	The door for the middle side-chambers was in the right side of the house: and they went up by winding stairs into the middle'story , and out of the middle into the third.
Kings 6:9	So he built the house, and finished it; and he covered the house with beams and planks of cedar.
Kings 6:10	And he built the stories against all the house, each five cubits high: and they rested on the house with timber of cedar.
Kings 6:11	And the word of Jehovah came to Solomon, saying,
Kings 6:12	Concerning this house which thou art building, if thou wilt walk in my statutes, and execute mine ordinances, and keep all my commandments to walk in them; then will I establish my word with thee, which I spake unto David thy father.
Kings 6:13	And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel.
Kings 6:14	So Solomon built the house, and finished it.
Kings 6:15	And he built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar: from the floor of the house unto the walls of the ceiling, he covered them on the inside with wood; and he covered the floor of the house with boards of fir.
Kings 6:16	And he built twenty cubits on the hinder part of the house with boards of cedar from the floor unto the walls of the ceiling : he built them for it within, for an oracle, even for the most holy place.
Kings 6:17	And the house, that is, the temple before the oracle , was forty cubits long .
Kings 6:18	And there was cedar on the house within, carved with knops and open flowers: all was cedar; there was no stone seen.
Kings 6:19	And he prepared an oracle in the midst of the house within, to set there the ark of the covenant of Jehovah.
Kings 6:20	And within the oracle was a space of twenty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in breadth, and twenty cubits in the height thereof; and he overlaid it with pure gold: and he covered the altar with cedar.
Kings 6:21	So Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold: and he drew chains of gold across before the oracle; and he overlaid it with gold.
Kings 6:22	And the whole house he overlaid with gold, until all the house was finished: also the whole altar that belonged to the oracle he overlaid with gold.
Kings 6:23	And in the oracle he made two cherubim of olive-wood, each ten cubits high.
Kings 6:24	And five cubits was the one wing of the cherub, and five cubits the other wing of the cherub: from the uttermost part of the one wing unto the uttermost part of the other were ten cubits.
Kings 6:25	And the other cherub was ten cubits: both the cherubim were of one measure and one form.
Kings 6:26	The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was it of the other cherub.
Kings 6:27	And he set the cherubim within the inner house; and the wings of the cherubim were stretched forth, so that the wing of the one touched the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall; and their wings touched one another in the midst of the house.
Kings 6:28	And he overlaid the cherubim with gold.
Kings 6:29	And he carved all the walls of the house round about with carved figures of cherubim and palm-trees and open flowers, within and without.
Kings 6:30	And the floor of the house he overlaid with gold, within and without.
Kings 6:31	And for the entrance of the oracle he made doors of olive-wood: the lintel and door-posts were a fifth part of the wall .
Kings 6:32	So he made two doors of olive-wood; and he carved upon them carvings of cherubim and palm-trees and open flowers, and overlaid them with gold; and he spread the gold upon the cherubim, and upon the palm-trees.
Kings 6:33	So also made he for the entrance of the temple door-posts of olive-wood, out of a fourth part of the wall ;
Kings 6:34	and two doors of fir-wood: the two leaves of the one door were folding, and the two leaves of the other door were folding.
Kings 6:35	And he carved thereon cherubim and palm-trees and open flowers; and he overlaid them with gold fitted upon the graven work.
Kings 6:36	And he built the inner court with three courses of hewn stone, and a course of cedar beams.
Kings 6:37	In the fourth year was the foundation of the house of Jehovah laid, in the month Ziv.
Kings 6:38	And in the eleventh year, in the month Bul, which is the eighth month, was the house finished throughout all the parts thereof, and according to all the fashion of it. So was he seven years in building it.
Kings 7:1	And Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished all his house.
Kings 7:2	For he built the house of the forest of Lebanon; the length thereof was a hundred cubits, and the breadth thereof fifty cubits, and the height thereof thirty cubits, upon four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams upon the pillars.
Kings 7:3	And it was covered with cedar above over the forty and five beams, that were upon the pillars; fifteen in a row.
Kings 7:4	And there were beams in three rows, and window was over against window in three ranks.
Kings 7:5	And all the doors and posts were made square with beams: and window was over against window in three ranks.
Kings 7:6	And he made the porch of pillars; the length thereof was fifty cubits, and the breadth thereof thirty cubits; and a porch before them; and pillars and a threshold before them.
Kings 7:7	And he made the porch of the throne where he was to judge, even the porch of judgment: and it was covered with cedar from floor to floor.
Kings 7:8	And his house where he was to dwell, the other court within the porch, was of the like work. He made also a house for Pharaoh's daughter (whom Solomon had taken to wife), like unto this porch.
Kings 7:9	All these were of costly stones, even of hewn stone, according to measure, sawed with saws, within and without, even from the foundation unto the coping, and so on the outside unto the great court.
Kings 7:10	And the foundation was of costly stones, even great stones, stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits.
Kings 7:11	And above were costly stones, even hewn stone, according to measure, and cedar-wood.
Kings 7:12	And the great court round about had three courses of hewn stone, and a course of cedar beams; like as the inner court of the house of Jehovah, and the porch of the house.
Kings 7:13	And king Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre.
Kings 7:14	He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in brass; and he was filled with wisdom and understanding and skill, to work all works in brass. And he came to king Solomon, and wrought all his work.
Kings 7:15	For he fashioned the two pillars of brass, eighteen cubits high apiece: and a line of twelve cubits compassed either of them about.
Kings 7:16	And he made two capitals of molten brass, to set upon the tops of the pillars: the height of the one capital was five cubits, and the height of the other capital was five cubits.
Kings 7:17	There were nets of checker-work, and wreaths of chain-work, for the capitals which were upon the top of the pillars; seven for the one capital, and seven for the other capital.
Kings 7:18	So he made the pillars; and there were two rows round about upon the one network, to cover the capitals that were upon the top of the pillars: and so did he for the other capital.
Kings 7:19	And the capitals that were upon the top of the pillars in the porch were of lily-work, four cubits.
Kings 7:20	And there were capitals above also upon the two pillars, close by the belly which was beside the network: and the pomegranates were two hundred, in rows round about upon the other capital.
Kings 7:21	And he set up the pillars at the porch of the temple: and he set up the right pillar, and called the name thereof Jachin; and he set up the left pillar, and called the name thereof Boaz.
Kings 7:22	And upon the top of the pillars was lily-work: so was the work of the pillars finished.
Kings 7:23	And he made the molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in compass, and the height thereof was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits compassed it round about.
Kings 7:24	And under the brim of it round about there were knops which did compass it, for ten cubits, compassing the sea round about: the knops were in two rows, cast when it was cast.
Kings 7:25	It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east; and the sea was set upon them above, and all their hinder parts were inward.
Kings 7:26	And it was a handbreadth thick: and the brim thereof was wrought like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily: it held two thousand baths.
Kings 7:27	And he made the ten bases of brass; four cubits was the length of one base, and four cubits the breadth thereof, and three cubits the height of it.
Kings 7:28	And the work of the bases was on this manner: they had panels; and there were panels between the ledges;
Kings 7:29	and on the panels that were between the ledges were lions, oxen, and cherubim; and upon the ledges there was a pedestal above; and beneath the lions and oxen were wreaths of hanging work.
Kings 7:30	And every base had four brazen wheels, and axles of brass; and the four feet thereof had undersetters: beneath the laver were the undersetters molten, with wreaths at the side of each.
Kings 7:31	And the mouth of it within the capital and above was a cubit: and the mouth thereof was round after the work of a pedestal, a cubit and a half; and also upon the mouth of it were gravings, and their panels were foursquare, not round.
Kings 7:32	And the four wheels were underneath the panels; and the axletrees of the wheels were in the base: and the height of a wheel was a cubit and half a cubit.
Kings 7:33	And the work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel: their axletrees, and their felloes, and their spokes, and their naves, were all molten.
Kings 7:34	And there were four undersetters at the four corners of each base: the undersetters thereof were of the base itself.
Kings 7:35	And in the top of the base was there a round compass half a cubit high; and on the top of the base the stays thereof and the panels thereof were of the same.
Kings 7:36	And on the plates of the stays thereof, and on the panels thereof, he graved cherubim, lions, and palm-trees, according to the space of each, with wreaths round about.
Kings 7:37	After this manner he made the ten bases: all of them had one casting, one measure, and one form.
Kings 7:38	And he made ten lavers of brass: one laver contained forty baths; and every laver was four cubits; and upon very one of the ten bases one laver.
Kings 7:39	And he set the bases, five on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house: and he set the sea on the right side of the house eastward, toward the south.
Kings 7:40	And Hiram made the lavers, and the shovels, and the basins. So Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he wrought for king Solomon in the house of Jehovah:
Kings 7:41	the two pillars, and the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars; and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars;
Kings 7:42	and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks; two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were upon the pillars;
Kings 7:43	and the ten bases, and the ten lavers on the bases;
Kings 7:44	and the one sea, and the twelve oxen under the sea;
Kings 7:45	and the pots, and the shovels, and the basins: even all these vessels, which Hiram made for king Solomon, in the house of Jehovah, were of burnished brass.
Kings 7:46	In the plain of the Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarethan.
Kings 7:47	And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed , because they were exceeding many: the weight of the brass could not be found out.
Kings 7:48	And Solomon made all the vessels that were in the house of Jehovah: the golden altar, and the table whereupon the showbread was, of gold;
Kings 7:49	and the candlesticks, five on the right side, and five on the left, before the oracle, of pure gold; and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, of gold;
Kings 7:50	and the cups, and the snuffers, and the basins, and the spoons, and the firepans, of pure gold; and the hinges, both for the doors of the inner house, the most holy place, and for the doors of the house, to wit , of the temple, of gold.
Kings 7:51	Thus all the work that king Solomon wrought in the house of Jehovah was finished. And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated, even the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, and put them in the treasuries of the house of Jehovah.
Kings 8:1	Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the princes of the fathers  houses of the children of Israel, unto king Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of the city of David, which is Zion.
Kings 8:2	And all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto king Solomon at the feast, in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month.
Kings 8:3	And all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.
Kings 8:4	And they brought up the ark of Jehovah, and the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tent; even these did the priests and the Levites bring up.
Kings 8:5	And king Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, that were assembled unto him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen, that could not be counted nor numbered for multitude.
Kings 8:6	And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto its place, into the oracle of the house, to the most holy place, even under the wings of the cherubim.
Kings 8:7	For the cherubim spread forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and the staves thereof above.
Kings 8:8	And the staves were so long that the ends of the staves were seen from the holy place before the oracle; but they were not seen without: and there they are unto this day.
Kings 8:9	There was nothing in the ark save the two tables of stone which Moses put there at Horeb, when Jehovah made a covenant with the children of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.
Kings 8:10	And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy place, that the cloud filled the house of Jehovah,
Kings 8:11	so that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud; for the glory of Jehovah filled the house of Jehovah.
Kings 8:12	Then spake Solomon, Jehovah hath said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
Kings 8:13	I have surely built thee a house of habitation, a place for thee to dwell in for ever.
Kings 8:14	And the king turned his face about, and blessed all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood.
Kings 8:15	And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who spake with his mouth unto David thy father, and hath with his hand fulfilled it, saying,
Kings 8:16	Since the day that I brought forth my people Israel out of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build a house, that my name might be there; but I chose David to be over my people Israel.
Kings 8:17	Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Kings 8:18	But Jehovah said unto David my father, Whereas it was in thy heart to build a house for my name, thou didst well that it was in thy heart:
Kings 8:19	nevertheless thou shalt not build the house; but thy son that shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the house for my name.
Kings 8:20	And Jehovah hath established his word that he spake; for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as Jehovah promised, and have built the house for the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Kings 8:21	And there have I set a place for the ark, wherein is the covenant of Jehovah, which he made with our fathers, when he brought them out of the land of Egypt.
Kings 8:22	And Solomon stood before the altar of Jehovah in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven;
Kings 8:23	and he said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, there is no God like thee, in heaven above, or on earth beneath; who keepest covenant and lovingkindness with thy servants, that walk before thee with all their heart;
Kings 8:24	who hast kept with thy servant David my father that which thou didst promise him: yea, thou spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thy hand, as it is this day.
Kings 8:25	Now therefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, keep with thy servant David my father that which thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not fail thee a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, if only thy children take heed to their way, to walk before me as thou hast walked before me.
Kings 8:26	Now therefore, O God of Israel, let thy word, I pray thee, be verified, which thou spakest unto thy servant David my father.
Kings 8:27	But will God in very deed dwell on the earth? behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less this house that I have builded!
Kings 8:28	Yet have thou respect unto the prayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O Jehovah my God, to hearken unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee this day;
Kings 8:29	that thine eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place whereof thou hast said, My name shall be there; to hearken unto the prayer which thy servant shall pray toward this place.
Kings 8:30	And hearken thou to the supplication of thy servant, and of thy people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place: yea, hear thou in heaven thy dwelling-place; and when thou hearest, forgive.
Kings 8:31	If a man sin against his neighbor, and an oath be laid upon him to cause him to swear, and he come and'swear before thine altar in this house;
Kings 8:32	then hear thou in heaven, and do, and judge thy servants, condemning the wicked, to bring his way upon his own head, and justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.
Kings 8:33	When thy people Israel are smitten down before the enemy, because they have sinned against thee; if they turn again to thee, and confess thy name, and pray and make supplication unto thee in this house:
Kings 8:34	then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest unto their fathers.
Kings 8:35	When heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee; if they pray toward this place, and confess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou dost afflict them:
Kings 8:36	then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants, and of thy people Israel, when thou teachest them the good way wherein they should walk; and send rain upon thy land, which thou hast given to thy people for an inheritance.
Kings 8:37	If there be in the land famine, if there be pestilence, if there be blasting or mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their enemy besiege them in the land of their cities; whatsoever plague, whatsoever sickness there be;
Kings 8:38	what prayer and supplication soever be made by any man, or by all thy people Israel, who shall know every man the plague of his own heart, and spread forth his hands toward this house:
Kings 8:39	then hear thou in heaven thy dwelling-place, and forgive, and do, and render unto every man according to all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou, even thou only, knowest the hearts of all the children of men;)
Kings 8:40	that they may fear thee all the days that they live in the land which thou gavest unto our fathers.
Kings 8:41	Moreover concerning the foreigner, that is not of thy people Israel, when he shall come out of a far country for thy name's sake;
Kings 8:42	(for they shall hear of thy great name, and of thy mighty hand, and of thine outstretched arm); when he shall come and pray toward this house;
Kings 8:43	hear thou in heaven thy dwelling-place, and do according to all that the foreigner calleth to thee for; that all the peoples of the earth may know thy name, to fear thee, as doth thy people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by my name.
Kings 8:44	If thy people go out to battle against their enemy, by whatsoever way thou shalt send them, and they pray unto Jehovah toward the city which thou hast chosen, and toward the house which I have built for thy name;
Kings 8:45	then hear thou in heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
Kings 8:46	If they sin against thee (for there is no man that sinneth not), and thou be angry with them, and deliver them to the enemy, so that they carry them away captive unto the land of the enemy, far off or near;
Kings 8:47	yet if they shall bethink themselves in the land whither they are carried captive, and turn again, and make supplication unto thee in the land of them that carried them captive, saying, We have sinned, and have done perversely, we have dealt wickedly;
Kings 8:48	if they return unto thee with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies, who carried them captive, and pray unto thee toward their land, which thou gavest unto their fathers, the city which thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name:
Kings 8:49	then hear thou their prayer and their supplication in heaven thy dwelling-place, and maintain their cause;
Kings 8:50	and forgive thy people who have sinned against thee, and all their transgressions wherein they have transgressed against thee; and give them compassion before those who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them;
Kings 8:51	(for they are thy people, and thine inheritance, which thou broughtest forth out of Egypt, from the midst of the furnace of iron);
Kings 8:52	that thine eyes may be open unto the supplication of thy servant, and unto the supplication of thy people Israel, to hearken unto them whensoever they cry unto thee.
Kings 8:53	For thou didst separate them from among all the peoples of the earth, to be thine inheritance, as thou spakest by Moses thy servant, when thou broughtest our fathers out of Egypt, O Lord Jehovah.
Kings 8:54	And it was so, that, when Solomon had made an end of praying all this prayer and supplication unto Jehovah, he arose from before the altar of Jehovah, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread forth toward heaven.
Kings 8:55	And he stood, and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
Kings 8:56	Blessed be Jehovah, that hath given rest unto his people Israel, according to all that he promised: there hath not failed one word of all his good promise, which he promised by Moses his servant.
Kings 8:57	Jehovah our God be with us, as he was with our fathers: let him not leave us, nor forsake us;
Kings 8:58	that he may incline our hearts unto him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his ordinances, which he commanded our fathers.
Kings 8:59	And let these my words, wherewith I have made supplication before Jehovah, be nigh unto Jehovah our God day and night, that he maintain the cause of his servant, and the cause of his people Israel, as every day shall require;
Kings 8:60	that all the peoples of the earth may know that Jehovah, he is God; there is none else.
Kings 8:61	Let your heart therefore be perfect with Jehovah our God, to walk in his statutes, and to keep his commandments, as at this day.
Kings 8:62	And the king, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifice before Jehovah.
Kings 8:63	And Solomon offered for the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which he offered unto Jehovah, two and twenty thousand oxen, and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of Jehovah.
Kings 8:64	The same day did the king hallow the middle of the court that was before the house of Jehovah; for there he offered the burnt-offering, and the meal-offering, and the fat of the peace-offerings, because the brazen altar that was before Jehovah was too little to receive the burnt-offering, and the meal-offering, and the fat of the peace-offerings.
Kings 8:65	So Solomon held the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath unto the brook of Egypt, before Jehovah our God, seven days and seven days, even fourteen days.
Kings 8:66	On the eighth day he sent the people away; and they blessed the king, and went unto their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that Jehovah had showed unto David his servant, and to Israel his people.
Kings 9:1	And it came to pass, when Solomon had finished the building of the house of Jehovah, and the king's house, and all Solomon's desire which he was pleased to do,
Kings 9:2	that Jehovah appeared to Solomon the second time, as he had appeared unto him at Gibeon.
Kings 9:3	And Jehovah said unto him, I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication, that thou hast made before me: I have hallowed this house, which thou hast built, to put my name there for ever; and mine eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually.
Kings 9:4	And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, in integrity of heart, and in uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded thee, and wilt keep my statutes and mine ordinances;
Kings 9:5	then I will establish the throne of thy kingdom over Israel for ever, according as I promised to David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man upon the throne of Israel.
Kings 9:6	But if ye shall turn away from following me, ye or your children, and not keep my commandments and my statutes which I have set before you, but shall go and serve other gods, and worship them;
Kings 9:7	then will I cut off Israel out of the land which I have given them; and this house, which I have hallowed for my name, will I cast out of my sight; and Israel shall be a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
Kings 9:8	And though this house is so high, yet shall every one that passeth by it be astonished, and shall hiss; and they shall say, Why hath Jehovah done thus unto this land, and to this house?
Kings 9:9	and they shall answer, Because they forsook Jehovah their God, who brought forth their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other gods, and worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath Jehovah brought all this evil upon them.
Kings 9:10	And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomon had built the two houses, the house of Jehovah and the king's house,
Kings 9:11	(now Hiram the king of Tyre had furnished Solomon with cedar-trees and fir-trees, and with gold, according to all his desire), that then king Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee.
Kings 9:12	And Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had given him; and they pleased him not.
Kings 9:13	And he said, What cities are these which thou hast given me, my brother? And he called them the land of Cabul unto this day.
Kings 9:14	And Hiram sent to the king sixscore talents of gold.
Kings 9:15	And this is the reason of the levy which king Solomon raised, to build the house of Jehovah, and his own house, and Millo, and the wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer.
Kings 9:16	Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up, and taken Gezer, and burnt it with fire, and slain the Canaanites that dwelt in the city, and given it for a portion unto his daughter, Solomon's wife.
Kings 9:17	And Solomon built Gezer, and Beth-horon the nether,
Kings 9:18	and Baalath, and Tamar in the wilderness, in the land,
Kings 9:19	and all the store-cities that Solomon had, and the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and that which Solomon desired to build for his pleasure in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
Kings 9:20	As for all the people that were left of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of the children of Israel;
Kings 9:21	their children that were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel were not able utterly to destroy, of them did Solomon raise a levy of bondservants unto this day.
Kings 9:22	But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no bondservants; but they were the men of war, and his servants, and his princes, and his captains, and rulers of his chariots and of his horsemen.
Kings 9:23	These were the chief officers that were over Solomon's work, five hundred and fifty, who bare rule over the people that wrought in the work.
Kings 9:24	But Pharaoh's daughter came up out of the city of David unto her house which'solomon had built for her: then did he build Millo.
Kings 9:25	And three times a year did Solomon offer burnt-offerings and peace-offerings upon the altar which he built unto Jehovah, burning incense therewith, upon the altar that was before Jehovah. So he finished the house.
Kings 9:26	And king Solomon made a navy of ships in Ezion-geber, which is beside Eloth, on the shore of the Red Sea, in the land of Edom.
Kings 9:27	And Hiram sent in the navy his servants, shipmen that had knowledge of the sea, with the servants of Solomon.
Kings 9:28	And they came to Ophir, and fetched from thence gold, four hundred and twenty talents, and brought it to king Solomon.
Kings 10:1	And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of Jehovah, she came to prove him with hard questions.
Kings 10:2	And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels that bare spices, and very much gold, and precious stones; and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart.
Kings 10:3	And Solomon told her all her questions: there was not anything hid from the king which he told her not.
Kings 10:4	And when the queen of Sheba had seen all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built,
Kings 10:5	and the food of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their apparel, and his cupbearers, and his ascent by which he went up unto the house of Jehovah; there was no more spirit in her.
Kings 10:6	And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in mine own land of thine acts, and of thy wisdom.
Kings 10:7	Howbeit I believed not the words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it: and, behold, the half was not told me; thy wisdom and prosperity exceed the fame which I heard.
Kings 10:8	Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, that stand continually before thee, and that hear thy wisdom.
Kings 10:9	Blessed be Jehovah thy God, who delighted in thee, to set thee on the throne of Israel: because Jehovah loved Israel for ever, therefore made he thee king, to do justice and righteousness.
Kings 10:10	And she gave the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and of spices very great store, and precious stones: there came no more such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.
Kings 10:11	And the navy also of Hiram, that brought gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug-trees and precious stones.
Kings 10:12	And the king made of the almug-trees pillars for the house of Jehovah, and for the king's house, harps also and psalteries for the singers: there came no such almug-trees, nor were seen, unto this day.
Kings 10:13	And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatsoever she asked, besides that which Solomon gave her of his royal bounty. So she turned, and went to her own land, she and her servants.
Kings 10:14	Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred threescore and six talents of gold,
Kings 10:15	besides that which the traders brought , and the traffic of the merchants, and of all the kings of the mingled people, and of the governors of the country.
Kings 10:16	And king Solomon made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold; six hundred'shekels of gold went to one buckler.
Kings 10:17	And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three pounds of gold went to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.
Kings 10:18	Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it with the finest gold.
Kings 10:19	There were six steps to the throne, and the top of the throne was round behind; and there were stays on either side by the place of the seat, and two lions standing beside the stays.
Kings 10:20	And twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps: there was not the like made in any kingdom.
Kings 10:21	And all king Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold: none were of silver; it was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon.
Kings 10:22	For the king had at sea a navy of Tarshish with the navy of Hiram: once every three years came the navy of Tarshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.
Kings 10:23	So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
Kings 10:24	And all the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart.
Kings 10:25	And they brought every man his tribute, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and raiment, and armor, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.
Kings 10:26	And Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he bestowed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
Kings 10:27	And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycomore-trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
Kings 10:28	And the horses which Solomon had were brought out of Egypt; and the king's merchants received them in droves, each drove at a price.
Kings 10:29	And a chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred'shekels of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty; and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, did they bring them out by their means.
Kings 11:1	Now king Solomon loved many foreign women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, and Hittites;
Kings 11:2	of the nations concerning which Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go among them, neither shall they come among you; for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods: Solomon clave unto these in love.
Kings 11:3	And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines; and his wives turned away his heart.
Kings 11:4	For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods; and his heart was not perfect with Jehovah his God, as was the heart of David his father.
Kings 11:5	For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.
Kings 11:6	And Solomon did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and went not fully after Jehovah, as did David his father.
Kings 11:7	Then did Solomon build a high place for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, in the mount that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech the abomination of the children of Ammon.
Kings 11:8	And so did he for all his foreign wives, who burnt incense and sacrificed unto their gods.
Kings 11:9	And Jehovah was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned away from Jehovah, the God of Israel, who had appeared unto him twice,
Kings 11:10	and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods: but he kept not that which Jehovah commanded.
Kings 11:11	Wherefore Jehovah said unto Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and will give it to thy servant.
Kings 11:12	Notwithstanding in thy days I will not do it, for David thy father's sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son.
Kings 11:13	Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom; but I will give one tribe to thy son, for David my servant's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake which I have chosen.
Kings 11:14	And Jehovah raised up an adversary unto Solomon, Hadad the Edomite: he was of the king's seed in Edom.
Kings 11:15	For it came to pass, when David was in Edom, and Joab the captain of the host was gone up to bury the slain, and had smitten every male in Edom;
Kings 11:16	(for Joab and all Israel remained there six months, until he had cut off every male in Edom);
Kings 11:17	that Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father's servants with him, to go into Egypt, Hadad being yet a little child.
Kings 11:18	And they arose out of Midian, and came to Paran; and they took men with them out of Paran, and they came to Egypt, unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave him a house, and appointed him victuals, and gave him land.
Kings 11:19	And Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he gave him to wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen.
Kings 11:20	And the sister of Tahpenes bare him Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house; and Genubath was in Pharaoh's house among the sons of Pharaoh.
Kings 11:21	And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers, and that Joab the captain of the host was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, Let me depart, that I may go to mine own country.
Kings 11:22	Then Pharaoh said unto him, But what hast thou lacked with me, that, behold, thou seekest to go to thine own country? And he answered, Nothing: howbeit only let me depart.
Kings 11:23	And God raised up another adversary unto him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah.
Kings 11:24	And he gathered men unto him, and became captain over a troop, when David slew them of Zobah : and they went to Damascus, and dwelt therein, and reigned in Damascus.
Kings 11:25	And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, besides the mischief that Hadad did : and he abhorred Israel, and reigned over Syria.
Kings 11:26	And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, a servant of Solomon, whose mother's name was Zeruah, a widow, he also lifted up his hand against the king.
Kings 11:27	And this was the reason why he lifted up his hand against the king: Solomon built Millo, and repaired the breach of the city of David his father.
Kings 11:28	And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor; and Solomon saw the young man that he was industrious, and he gave him charge over all the labor of the house of Joseph.
Kings 11:29	And it came to pass at that time, when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way; now Ahijah had clad himself with a new garment; and they two were alone in the field.
Kings 11:30	And Ahijah laid hold of the new garment that was on him, and rent it in twelve pieces.
Kings 11:31	And he said to Jeroboam, Take thee ten pieces; for thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Behold, I will rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give ten tribes to thee;
Kings 11:32	(but he shall have one tribe, for my servant David's sake and for Jerusalem's sake, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel);
Kings 11:33	because that they have forsaken me, and have worshipped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the children of Ammon; and they have not walked in my ways, to do that which is right in mine eyes, and to keep my statutes and mine ordinances, as did David his father.
Kings 11:34	Howbeit I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand; but I will make him prince all the days of his life, for David my servant's sake whom I chose, who kept my commandments and my statutes;
Kings 11:35	but I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand, and will give it unto thee, even ten tribes.
Kings 11:36	And unto his son will I give one tribe, that David my servant may have a lamp alway before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen me to put my name there.
Kings 11:37	And I will take thee, and thou shalt reign according to all that thy soul desireth, and shalt be king over Israel.
Kings 11:38	And it shall be, if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command thee, and wilt walk in my ways, and do that which is right in mine eyes, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did; that I will be with thee, and will build thee a sure house, as I built for David, and will give Israel unto thee.
Kings 11:39	And I will for this afflict the seed of David, but not for ever.
Kings 11:40	Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam; but Jeroboam arose, and fled into Egypt, unto Shishak king of Egypt, and was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.
Kings 11:41	Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?
Kings 11:42	And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years.
Kings 11:43	And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 12:1	And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for all Israel were come to Shechem to make him king.
Kings 12:2	And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was yet in Egypt, whither he had fled from the presence of king Solomon, and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt,
Kings 12:3	and they sent and called him), that Jeroboam and all the assembly of Israel came, and spake unto Rehoboam, saying,
Kings 12:4	Thy father made our yoke grievous: now therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and his heavy yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee.
Kings 12:5	And he said unto them, Depart yet for three days, then come again to me. And the people departed.
Kings 12:6	And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men, that had stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel give ye me to return answer to this people?
Kings 12:7	And they spake unto him, saying, If thou wilt be a servant unto this people this day, and wilt serve them, and answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy servants for ever.
Kings 12:8	But he forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him, and took counsel with the young men that were grown up with him, that stood before him.
Kings 12:9	And he said unto them, What counsel give ye, that we may return answer to this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke that thy father did put upon us lighter?
Kings 12:10	And the young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou say unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us; thus shalt thou speak unto them, My little finger is thicker than my father's loins.
Kings 12:11	And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
Kings 12:12	So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king bade, saying, Come to me again the third day.
Kings 12:13	And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him,
Kings 12:14	and spake to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
Kings 12:15	So the king hearkened not unto the people; for it was a thing brought about of Jehovah, that he might establish his word, which Jehovah spake by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
Kings 12:16	And when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David? neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: to your tents, O Israel: now see to thine own house, David. So Israel departed unto their tents.
Kings 12:17	But as for the children of Israel that dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
Kings 12:18	Then king Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the men subject to taskwork; and all Israel stoned him to death with stones. And king Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem.
Kings 12:19	So Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.
Kings 12:20	And it came to pass, when all Israel heard that Jeroboam was returned, that they sent and called him unto the congregation, and made him king over all Israel: there was none that followed the house of David, but the tribe of Judah only.
Kings 12:21	And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah, and the tribe of Benjamin, a hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men, that were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon.
Kings 12:22	But the word of God came unto Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
Kings 12:23	Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and unto all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the rest of the people, saying,
Kings 12:24	Thus saith Jehovah, Ye shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren the children of Israel: return every man to his house; for this thing is of me. So they hearkened unto the word of Jehovah, and returned and went their way, according to the word of Jehovah.
Kings 12:25	Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt therein; and he went out from thence, and built Penuel.
Kings 12:26	And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now will the kingdom return to the house of David:
Kings 12:27	if this people go up to offer sacrifices in the house of Jehovah at Jerusalem, then will the heart of this people turn again unto their lord, even unto Rehoboam king of Judah; and they will kill me, and return to Rehoboam king of Judah.
Kings 12:28	Whereupon the king took counsel, and made two calves of gold; and he said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem: behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
Kings 12:29	And he set the one in Beth-el, and the other put he in Dan.
Kings 12:30	And this thing became a sin; for the people went to worship before the one, even unto Dan.
Kings 12:31	And he made houses of high places, and made priests from among all the people, that were not of the sons of Levi.
Kings 12:32	And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, like unto the feast that is in Judah, and he went up unto the altar; so did he in Beth-el, sacrificing unto the calves that he had made: and he placed in Beth-el the priests of the high places that he had made.
Kings 12:33	And he went up unto the altar which he had made in Beth-el on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised of his own heart: and he ordained a feast for the children of Israel, and went up unto the altar, to burn incense.
Kings 13:1	And, behold, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of Jehovah unto Beth-el: and Jeroboam was standing by the altar to burn incense.
Kings 13:2	And he cried against the altar by the word of Jehovah, and said, O altar, altar, thus saith Jehovah: Behold, a son shall be born unto the house of David, Josiah by name; and upon thee shall he sacrifice the priests of the high places that burn incense upon thee, and men's bones shall they burn upon thee.
Kings 13:3	And he gave a sign the same day, saying, This is the sign which Jehovah hath spoken: Behold, the altar shall be rent, and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out.
Kings 13:4	And it came to pass, when the king heard the saying of the man of God, which he cried against the altar in Beth-el, that Jeroboam put forth his hand from the altar, saying, Lay hold on him. And his hand, which he put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not draw it back again to him.
Kings 13:5	The altar also was rent, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the man of God had given by the word of Jehovah.
Kings 13:6	And the king answered and said unto the man of God, Entreat now the favor of Jehovah thy God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored me again. And the man of God entreated Jehovah, and the king's hand was restored him again, and became as it was before.
Kings 13:7	And the king said unto the man of God, Come home with me, and refresh thyself, and I will give thee a reward.
Kings 13:8	And the man of God said unto the king, If thou wilt give me half thy house, I will not go in with thee, neither will I eat bread nor drink water in this place;
Kings 13:9	for so was it charged me by the word of Jehovah, saying, Thou shalt eat no bread, nor drink water, neither return by the way that thou camest.
Kings 13:10	So he went another way, and returned not by the way that he came to Beth-el.
Kings 13:11	Now there dwelt an old prophet in Beth-el; and one of his sons came and told him all the works that the man of God had done that day in Beth-el: the words which he had spoken unto the king, them also they told unto their father.
Kings 13:12	And their father said unto them, What way went he? Now his sons had seen what way the man of God went, that came from Judah.
Kings 13:13	And he said unto his sons, Saddle me the ass. So they saddled him the ass; and he rode thereon.
Kings 13:14	And he went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak; and he said unto him, Art thou the man of God that camest from Judah? And he said, I am.
Kings 13:15	Then he said unto him, Come home with me, and eat bread.
Kings 13:16	And he said, I may not return with thee, nor go in with thee; neither will I eat bread nor drink water with thee in this place:
Kings 13:17	for it was said to me by the word of Jehovah, Thou shalt eat no bread nor drink water there, nor turn again to go by the way that thou camest.
Kings 13:18	And he said unto him, I also am a prophet as thou art; and an angel spake unto me by the word of Jehovah, saying, Bring him back with thee into thy house, that he may eat bread and drink water. But he lied unto him.
Kings 13:19	So he went back with him, and did eat bread in his house, and drank water.
Kings 13:20	And it came to pass, as they sat at the table, that the word of Jehovah came unto the prophet that brought him back;
Kings 13:21	and he cried unto the man of God that came from Judah, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, Forasmuch as thou hast been disobedient unto the mouth of Jehovah, and hast not kept the commandment which Jehovah thy God commanded thee,
Kings 13:22	but camest back, and hast eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which he said to thee, Eat no bread, and drink no water; thy body shall not come unto the sepulchre of thy fathers.
Kings 13:23	And it came to pass, after he had eaten bread, and after he had drunk, that he saddled for him the ass, to wit , for the prophet whom he had brought back.
Kings 13:24	And when he was gone, a lion met him by the way, and slew him: and his body was cast in the way, and the ass stood by it; the lion also stood by the body.
Kings 13:25	And, behold, men passed by, and saw the body cast in the way, and the lion standing by the body; and they came and told it in the city where the old prophet dwelt.
Kings 13:26	And when the prophet that brought him back from the way heard thereof, he said, It is the man of God, who was disobedient unto the mouth of Jehovah: therefore Jehovah hath delivered him unto the lion, which hath torn him, and slain him, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spake unto him.
Kings 13:27	And he spake to his sons, saying, Saddle me the ass. And they saddled it.
Kings 13:28	And he went and found his body cast in the way, and the ass and the lion standing by the body: the lion had not eaten the body, nor torn the ass.
Kings 13:29	And the prophet took up the body of the man of God, and laid it upon the ass, and brought it back; and he came to the city of the old prophet, to mourn, and to bury him.
Kings 13:30	And he laid his body in his own grave; and they mourned over him,'saying , Alas, my brother!
Kings 13:31	And it came to pass, after he had buried him, that he spake to his sons, saying, When I am dead, then bury me in the sepulchre wherein the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones.
Kings 13:32	For the saying which he cried by the word of Jehovah against the altar in Beth-el, and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria, shall surely come to pass.
Kings 13:33	After this thing Jeroboam returned not from his evil way, but made again from among all the people priests of the high places: whosoever would, he consecrated him, that there might be priests of the high places.
Kings 13:34	And this thing became sin unto the house of Jeroboam, even to cut it off, and to destroy it from off the face of the earth.
Kings 14:1	At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick.
Kings 14:2	And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thee, and disguise thyself, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam; and get thee to Shiloh: behold, there is Ahijah the prophet, who spake concerning me that I should be king over this people.
Kings 14:3	And take with thee ten loaves, and cakes, and a cruse of honey, and go to him: he will tell thee what shall become of the child.
Kings 14:4	And Jeroboam's wife did so, and arose, and went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah could not see; for his eyes were set by reason of his age.
Kings 14:5	And Jehovah said unto Ahijah, Behold, the wife of Jeroboam cometh to inquire of thee concerning her son; for he is sick: thus and thus shalt thou say unto her; for it will be, when she cometh in, that she will feign herself to be another woman.
Kings 14:6	And it was so, when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, that he said, Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam; why feignest thou thyself to be another? for I am sent to thee with heavy tidings.
Kings 14:7	Go, tell Jeroboam, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: Forasmuch as I exalted thee from among the people, and made thee prince over my people Israel,
Kings 14:8	and rent the kingdom away from the house of David, and gave it thee; and yet thou hast not been as my servant David, who kept my commandments, and who followed me with all his heart, to do that only which was right in mine eyes,
Kings 14:9	but hast done evil above all that were before thee, and hast gone and made thee other gods, and molten images, to provoke me to anger, and hast cast me behind thy back:
Kings 14:10	therefore, behold, I will bring evil upon the house of Jeroboam, and will cut off from Jeroboam every man-child, him that is shut up and him that is left at large in Israel, and will utterly sweep away the house of Jeroboam, as a man sweepeth away dung, till it be all gone.
Kings 14:11	Him that dieth of Jeroboam in the city shall the dogs eat; and him that dieth in the field shall the birds of the heavens eat: for Jehovah hath spoken it.
Kings 14:12	Arise thou therefore, get thee to thy house: and when thy feet enter into the city, the child shall die.
Kings 14:13	And all Israel shall mourn for him, and bury him; for he only of Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some good thing toward Jehovah, the God of Israel, in the house of Jeroboam.
Kings 14:14	Moreover Jehovah will raise him up a king over Israel, who shall cut off the house of Jeroboam that day: but what? even now.
Kings 14:15	For Jehovah will smite Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water; and he will root up Israel out of this good land which he gave to their fathers, and will scatter them beyond the River, because they have made their Asherim, provoking Jehovah to anger.
Kings 14:16	And he will give Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam, which he hath sinned, and wherewith he hath made Israel to sin.
Kings 14:17	And Jeroboam's wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah: and as she came to the threshold of the house, the child died.
Kings 14:18	And all Israel buried him, and mourned for him, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spake by his servant Ahijah the prophet.
Kings 14:19	And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred, and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
Kings 14:20	And the days which Jeroboam reigned were two and twenty years: and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 14:21	And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which Jehovah had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there: and his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
Kings 14:22	And Judah did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they provoked him to jealousy with their sins which they committed, above all that their fathers had done.
Kings 14:23	For they also built them high places, and pillars, and Asherim, on every high hill, and under every green tree;
Kings 14:24	and there were also sodomites in the land: they did according to all the abominations of the nations which Jehovah drove out before the children of Israel.
Kings 14:25	And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem;
Kings 14:26	and he took away the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king's house; he even took away all: and he took away all the shields of gold which Solomon had made.
Kings 14:27	And king Rehoboam made in their stead shields of brass, and committed them to the hands of the captains of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
Kings 14:28	And it was so, that, as oft as the king went into the house of Jehovah, the guard bare them, and brought them back into the guard-chamber.
Kings 14:29	Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 14:30	And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually.
Kings 14:31	And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David: and his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess. And Abijam his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:1	Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son of Nebat began Abijam to reign over Judah.
Kings 15:2	Three years reigned he in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
Kings 15:3	And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him; and his heart was not perfect with Jehovah his God, as the heart of David his father.
Kings 15:4	Nevertheless for David's sake did Jehovah his God give him a lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem;
Kings 15:5	because David did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and turned not aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his life, save only in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.
Kings 15:6	Now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.
Kings 15:7	And the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.
Kings 15:8	And Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:9	And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel began Asa to reign over Judah.
Kings 15:10	And forty and one years reigned he in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
Kings 15:11	And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, as did David his father.
Kings 15:12	And he put away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made.
Kings 15:13	And also Maacah his mother he removed from being queen, because she had made an abominable image for an Asherah; and Asa cut down her image, and burnt it at the brook Kidron.
Kings 15:14	But the high places were not taken away: nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect with Jehovah all his days.
Kings 15:15	And he brought into the house of Jehovah the things that his father had dedicated, and the things that himself had dedicated, silver, and gold, and vessels.
Kings 15:16	And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
Kings 15:17	And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he might not suffer any one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
Kings 15:18	Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king's house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants; and king Asa sent them to Ben-hadad, the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,
Kings 15:19	There is a league between me and thee, between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent unto thee a present of silver and gold; go, break thy league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.
Kings 15:20	And Ben-hadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel, and smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abel-beth-maacah, and all Chinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali.
Kings 15:21	And it came to pass, when Baasha heard thereof, that he left off building Ramah, and dwelt in Tirzah.
Kings 15:22	Then king Asa made a proclamation unto all Judah; none was exempted: and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha had builded; and king Asa built therewith Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah.
Kings 15:23	Now the rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet.
Kings 15:24	And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:25	And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah; and he reigned over Israel two years.
Kings 15:26	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.
Kings 15:27	And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him; and Baasha smote him at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon.
Kings 15:28	Even in the third year of Asa king of Judah did Baasha slay him, and reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:29	And it came to pass that, as soon as he was king, he smote all the house of Jeroboam: he left not to Jeroboam any that breathed, until he had destroyed him; according unto the saying of Jehovah, which he spake by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite;
Kings 15:30	for the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and wherewith he made Israel to sin, because of his provocation wherewith he provoked Jehovah, the God of Israel, to anger.
Kings 15:31	Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 15:32	And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
Kings 15:33	In the third year of Asa king of Judah began Baasha the son of Ahijah to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, and reigned twenty and four years.
Kings 15:34	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and walked in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.
Kings 16:1	And the word of Jehovah came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
Kings 16:2	Forasmuch as I exalted thee out of the dust, and made thee prince over my people Israel, and thou hast walked in the way of Jeroboam, and hast made my people Israel to sin, to provoke me to anger with their sins;
Kings 16:3	behold, I will utterly sweep away Baasha and his house; and I will make thy house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
Kings 16:4	Him that dieth of Baasha in the city shall the dogs eat; and him that dieth of his in the field shall the birds of the heavens eat.
Kings 16:5	Now the rest of the acts of Baasha, and what he did, and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 16:6	And Baasha slept with his fathers, and was buried in Tirzah; and Elah his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 16:7	And moreover by the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani came the word of Jehovah against Baasha, and against his house, both because of all the evil that he did in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger with the work of his hands, in being like the house of Jeroboam, and because he smote him.
Kings 16:8	In the twenty and sixth year of Asa king of Judah began Elah the son of Baasha to reign over Israel in Tirzah, and reigned two years.
Kings 16:9	And his servant Zimri, captain of half his chariots, conspired against him. Now he was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household in Tirzah:
Kings 16:10	and Zimri went in and smote him, and killed him, in the twenty and seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his stead.
Kings 16:11	And it came to pass, when he began to reign, as soon as he sat on his throne, that he smote all the house of Baasha: he left him not a single man-child, neither of his kinsfolks, nor of his friends.
Kings 16:12	Thus did Zimri destroy all the house of Baasha, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spake against Baasha by Jehu the prophet,
Kings 16:13	for all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned, and wherewith they made Israel to sin, to provoke Jehovah, the God of Israel, to anger with their vanities.
Kings 16:14	Now the rest of the acts of Elah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 16:15	In the twenty and seventh year of Asa king of Judah did Zimri reign seven days in Tirzah. Now the people were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines.
Kings 16:16	And the people that were encamped heard say, Zimri hath conspired, and hath also smitten the king: wherefore all Israel made Omri, the captain of the host, king over Israel that day in the camp.
Kings 16:17	And Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.
Kings 16:18	And it came to pass, when Zimri saw that the city was taken, that he went into the castle of the king's house, and burnt the king's house over him with fire, and died,
Kings 16:19	for his sins which he sinned in doing that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, in walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did, to make Israel to sin.
Kings 16:20	Now the rest of the acts of Zimri, and his treason that he wrought, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 16:21	Then were the people of Israel divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king; and half followed Omri.
Kings 16:22	But the people that followed Omri prevailed against the people that followed Tibni the son of Ginath: so Tibni died, and Omri reigned.
Kings 16:23	In the thirty and first year of Asa king of Judah began Omri to reign over Israel, and reigned twelve years: six years reigned he in Tirzah.
Kings 16:24	And he bought the hill Samaria of Shemer for two talents of silver; and he built on the hill, and called the name of the city which he built, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill, Samaria.
Kings 16:25	And Omri did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and dealt wickedly above all that were before him.
Kings 16:26	For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and in his sins wherewith he made Israel to sin, to provoke Jehovah, the God of Israel, to anger with their vanities.
Kings 16:27	Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did, and his might that he showed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 16:28	So Omri slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria; and Ahab his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 16:29	And in the thirty and eighth year of Asa king of Judah began Ahab the son of Omri to reign over Israel: and Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty and two years.
Kings 16:30	And Ahab the son of Omri did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah above all that were before him.
Kings 16:31	And it came to pass, as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took to wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal, and worshipped him.
Kings 16:32	And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria.
Kings 16:33	And Ahab made the Asherah; and Ahab did yet more to provoke Jehovah, the God of Israel, to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him.
Kings 16:34	In his days did Hiel the Beth-elite build Jericho: he laid the foundation thereof with the loss of Abiram his first-born, and set up the gates thereof with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spake by Joshua the son of Nun.
Kings 17:1	And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the sojourners of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.
Kings 17:2	And the word of Jehovah came unto him, saying,
Kings 17:3	Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Cherith, that is before the Jordan.
Kings 17:4	And it shall be, that thou shalt drink of the brook; and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there.
Kings 17:5	So he went and did according unto the word of Jehovah; for he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith, that is before the Jordan.
Kings 17:6	And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the brook.
Kings 17:7	And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land.
Kings 17:8	And the word of Jehovah came unto him, saying,
Kings 17:9	Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Sidon, and dwell there: behold, I have commanded a widow there to sustain thee.
Kings 17:10	So he arose and went to Zarephath; and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks: and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.
Kings 17:11	And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thy hand.
Kings 17:12	And she said, As Jehovah thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal in the jar, and a little oil in the cruse: and, behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it, and die.
Kings 17:13	And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; go and do as thou hast said; but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it forth unto me, and afterward make for thee and for thy son.
Kings 17:14	For thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, The jar of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that Jehovah sendeth rain upon the earth.
Kings 17:15	And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she, and he, and her house, did eat many days.
Kings 17:16	The jar of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spake by Elijah.
Kings 17:17	And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so sore, that there was no breath left in him.
Kings 17:18	And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? thou art come unto me to bring my sin to remembrance, and to slay my son!
Kings 17:19	And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into the chamber, where he abode, and laid him upon his own bed.
Kings 17:20	And he cried unto Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah my God, hast thou also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying her son?
Kings 17:21	And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried unto Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah my God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come into him again.
Kings 17:22	And Jehovah hearkened unto the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived.
Kings 17:23	And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother; and Elijah said, See, thy son liveth.
Kings 17:24	And the woman said to Elijah, Now I know that thou art a man of God, and that the word of Jehovah in thy mouth is truth.
Kings 18:1	And it came to pass after many days, that the word of Jehovah came to Elijah, in the third year, saying, Go, show thyself unto Ahab; and I will send rain upon the earth.
Kings 18:2	And Elijah went to show himself unto Ahab. And the famine was sore in Samaria.
Kings 18:3	And Ahab called Obadiah, who was over the household. (Now Obadiah feared Jehovah greatly:
Kings 18:4	for it was so, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of Jehovah, that Obadiah took a hundred prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water.)
Kings 18:5	And Ahab said unto Obadiah, Go through the land, unto all the fountains of water, and unto all the brooks: peradventure we may find grass and save the horses and mules alive, that we lose not all the beasts.
Kings 18:6	So they divided the land between them to pass throughout it: Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.
Kings 18:7	And as Obadiah was in the way, behold, Elijah met him: and he knew him, and fell on his face, and said, Is it thou, my lord Elijah?
Kings 18:8	And he answered him, It is I: go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here .
Kings 18:9	And he said, Wherein have I sinned, that thou wouldest deliver thy servant into the hand of Ahab, to slay me?
Kings 18:10	As Jehovah thy God liveth, there is no nation or kingdom, whither my lord hath not sent to seek thee: and when they said, He is not here, he took an oath of the kingdom and nation, that they found thee not.
Kings 18:11	And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here .
Kings 18:12	And it will come to pass, as soon as I am gone from thee, that the Spirit of Jehovah will carry thee whither I know not; and so when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find thee, he will slay me: but I thy servant fear Jehovah from my youth.
Kings 18:13	Was it not told my lord what I did when Jezebel slew the prophets of Jehovah, how I hid a hundred men of Jehovah's prophets by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water?
Kings 18:14	And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here ; and he will slay me.
Kings 18:15	And Elijah said, As Jehovah of hosts liveth, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself unto him to-day.
Kings 18:16	So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him; and Ahab went to meet Elijah.
Kings 18:17	And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Is it thou, thou troubler of Israel?
Kings 18:18	And he answered, I have not troubled Israel; but thou, and thy father's house, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of Jehovah, and thou hast followed the Baalim.
Kings 18:19	Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel unto mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the Asherah four hundred, that eat at Jezebel's table.
Kings 18:20	So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together unto mount Carmel.
Kings 18:21	And Elijah came near unto all the people, and said, How long go ye limping between the two sides? if Jehovah be God, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word.
Kings 18:22	Then said Elijah unto the people, I, even I only, am left a prophet of Jehovah; but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men.
Kings 18:23	Let them therefore give us two bullocks; and let them choose one bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire under; and I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on the wood, and put no fire under.
Kings 18:24	And call ye on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of Jehovah; and the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and said, It is well spoken.
Kings 18:25	And Elijah said unto the prophets of Baal, Choose you one bullock for yourselves, and dress it first; for ye are many; and call on the name of your god, but put no fire under.
Kings 18:26	And they took the bullock which was given them, and they dressed it, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, O Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that answered. And they leaped about the altar which was made.
Kings 18:27	And it came to pass at noon, that Elijah mocked them, and said, Cry aloud; for he is a god: either he is musing, or he is gone aside, or he is on a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth and must be awaked.
Kings 18:28	And they cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with knives and lances, till the blood gushed out upon them.
Kings 18:29	And it was so, when midday was past, that they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening oblation; but there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded.
Kings 18:30	And Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me; and all the people came near unto him. And he repaired the altar of Jehovah that was thrown down.
Kings 18:31	And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, unto whom the word of Jehovah came, saying, Israel shall be thy name.
Kings 18:32	And with the stones he built an altar in the name of Jehovah; and he made a trench about the altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed.
Kings 18:33	And he put the wood in order, and cut the bullock in pieces, and laid it on the wood. And he said, Fill four jars with water, and pour it on the burnt-offering, and on the wood.
Kings 18:34	And he said, Do it the second time; and they did it the second time. And he said, Do it the third time; and they did it the third time.
Kings 18:35	And the water ran round about the altar; and he filled the trench also with water.
Kings 18:36	And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening oblation, that Elijah the prophet came near, and said, O Jehovah, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word.
Kings 18:37	Hear me, O Jehovah, hear me, that this people may know that thou, Jehovah, art God, and that thou hast turned their heart back again.
Kings 18:38	Then the fire of Jehovah fell, and consumed the burnt-offering, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.
Kings 18:39	And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces: and they said, Jehovah, he is God; Jehovah, he is God.
Kings 18:40	and Elijah said unto them, Take the prophets of Baal; let not one of them escape. And they took them; and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon, and slew them there.
Kings 18:41	And Elijah said unto Ahab, Get thee up, eat and drink; for there is the sound of abundance of rain.
Kings 18:42	So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he bowed himself down upon the earth, and put his face between his knees.
Kings 18:43	And he said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. And he went up, and looked, and said, There is nothing. And he said, Go again seven times.
Kings 18:44	And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said, Behold, there ariseth a cloud out of the sea, as small as a man's hand. And he said, Go up, say unto Ahab, Make ready thy chariot , and get thee down, that the rain stop thee not.
Kings 18:45	And it came to pass in a little while, that the heavens grew black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode, and went to Jezreel:
Kings 18:46	and the hand of Jehovah was on Elijah; and he girded up his loins, and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.
Kings 19:1	And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword.
Kings 19:2	Then Jezebel send a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by to-morrow about this time.
Kings 19:3	And when he saw that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to Beer-sheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there.
Kings 19:4	But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper-tree: and he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough; now, O Jehovah, take away my life; for I am not better than my fathers.
Kings 19:5	And he lay down and slept under a juniper-tree; and, behold, an angel touched him, and said unto him, Arise and eat.
Kings 19:6	And he looked, and, behold, there was at his head a cake baken on the coals, and a cruse of water. And he did eat and drink, and laid him down again.
Kings 19:7	And the angel of Jehovah came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for thee.
Kings 19:8	And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God.
Kings 19:9	And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there; and, behold, the word of Jehovah came to him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah?
Kings 19:10	And he said, I have been very jealous for Jehovah, the God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword: and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.
Kings 19:11	And he said, Go forth, and stand upon the mount before Jehovah. And, behold, Jehovah passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before Jehovah; but Jehovah was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but Jehovah was not in the earthquake:
Kings 19:12	and after the earthquake a fire; but Jehovah was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.
Kings 19:13	And it was so, when Elijah heard it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out, and stood in the entrance of the cave. And, behold, there came a voice unto him, and said, What doest thou here, Elijah?
Kings 19:14	And he said, I have been very jealous for Jehovah, the God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.
Kings 19:15	And Jehovah said unto him, Go, return on thy way to the wilderness of Damascus: and when thou comest, thou shalt anoint Hazael to be king over Syria;
Kings 19:16	and Jehu the son of Nimshi shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel; and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room.
Kings 19:17	And it shall come to pass, that him that escapeth from the sword of Hazael shall Jehu slay; and him that escapeth from the sword of Jehu shall Elisha slay.
Kings 19:18	Yet will I leave me'seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him.
Kings 19:19	So he departed thence, and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing, with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth: and Elijah passed over unto him, and cast his mantle upon him.
Kings 19:20	And he left the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and said, Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow thee. And he said unto him, Go back again; for what have I done to thee?
Kings 19:21	And he returned from following him, and took the yoke of oxen, and slew them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave unto the people, and they did eat. Then he arose, and went after Elijah, and ministered unto him.
Kings 20:1	And Ben-hadad the king of Syria gathered all his host together; and there were thirty and two kings with him, and horses and chariots: and he went up and besieged Samaria, and fought against it.
Kings 20:2	And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel, into the city, and said unto him, Thus saith Ben-hadad,
Kings 20:3	Thy silver and thy gold is mine; thy wives also and thy children, even the goodliest, are mine.
Kings 20:4	And the king of Israel answered and said, It is according to thy saying, my lord, O king; I am thine, and all that I have.
Kings 20:5	And the messengers came again, and said, Thus speaketh Ben-hadad, saying, I sent indeed unto thee, saying, Thou shalt deliver me thy silver, and thy gold, and thy wives, and thy children;
Kings 20:6	but I will send my servants unto thee to-morrow about this time, and they shall search thy house, and the houses of thy servants; and it shall be, that whatsoever is pleasant in thine eyes, they shall put it in their hand, and take it away.
Kings 20:7	Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and said, Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeketh mischief: for he sent unto me for my wives, and for my children, and for my silver, and for my gold; and I denied him not.
Kings 20:8	And all the elders and all the people said unto him, Hearken thou not, neither consent.
Kings 20:9	Wherefore he said unto the messengers of Ben-hadad, Tell my lord the king, All that thou didst send for to thy servant at the first I will do; but this thing I may not do. And the messengers departed, and brought him word again.
Kings 20:10	And Ben-hadad sent unto him, and said, The gods do so unto me, and more also, if the dust of Samaria shall suffice for handfuls for all the people that follow me.
Kings 20:11	And the king of Israel answered and said, Tell him, Let not him that girdeth on his armor boast himself as he that putteth it off.
Kings 20:12	And it came to pass, when Ben-hadad heard this message, as he was drinking, he and the kings, in the pavilions, that he said unto his servants, Set yourselves in array . And they set themselves in array against the city.
Kings 20:13	And, behold, a prophet came near unto Ahab king of Israel, and said, Thus saith Jehovah, Hast thou seen all this great multitude? behold, I will deliver it into thy hand this day; and thou shalt know that I am Jehovah.
Kings 20:14	And Ahab said, By whom? And he said, Thus saith Jehovah, By the young men of the princes of the provinces. Then he said, Who shall begin the battle? And he answered, Thou.
Kings 20:15	Then he mustered the young men of the princes of the provinces, and they were two hundred and thirty-two: and after them he mustered all the people, even all the children of Israel, being seven thousand.
Kings 20:16	And they went out at noon. But Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the pavilions, he and the kings, the thirty and two kings that helped him.
Kings 20:17	And the young men of the princes of the provinces went out first; and Ben-hadad sent out, and they told him, saying, There are men come out from Samaria.
Kings 20:18	And he said, Whether they are come out for peace, take them alive, or whether they are come out for war, taken them alive.
Kings 20:19	So these went out of the city, the young men of the princes of the provinces, and the army which followed them.
Kings 20:20	And they slew every one his man; and the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them: and Ben-hadad the king of Syria escaped on a horse with horsemen.
Kings 20:21	And the king of Israel went out, and smote the horses and chariots, and slew the Syrians with a great slaughter.
Kings 20:22	And the prophet came near to the king of Israel, and said unto him, Go, strengthen thyself, and mark, and see what thou doest; for at the return of the year the king of Syria will come up against thee.
Kings 20:23	And the servants of the king of Syria said unto him, Their god is a god of the hills; therefore they were stronger than we: but let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they.
Kings 20:24	And do this thing: take the kings away, every man out of his place, and put captains in their room;
Kings 20:25	and number thee an army, like the army that thou hast lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot; and we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they. And he hearkened unto their voice, and did so.
Kings 20:26	And it came to pass at the return of the year, that Ben-hadad mustered the Syrians, and went up to Aphek, to fight against Israel.
Kings 20:27	And the children of Israel were mustered, and were victualled, and went against them: and the children of Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of kids; but the Syrians filled the country.
Kings 20:28	And a man of God came near and spake unto the king of Israel, and said, Thus saith Jehovah, Because the Syrians have said, Jehovah is a god of the hills, but he is not a god of the valleys; therefore will I deliver all this great multitude into thy hand, and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
Kings 20:29	And they encamped one over against the other seven days. And so it was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined; and the children of Israel slew of the Syrians a hundred thousand footmen in one day.
Kings 20:30	But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and the wall fell upon twenty and seven thousand men that were left. And Ben-hadad fled, and came into the city, into an inner chamber.
Kings 20:31	And his servants said unto him, Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings: let us, we pray thee, put sackcloth on our loins, and ropes upon our heads, and go out to the king of Israel: peradventure he will save thy life.
Kings 20:32	So they girded sackcloth on their loins, and put ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel, and said, Thy servant Ben-hadad saith, I pray thee, let me live. And he said, Is he yet alive? he is my brother.
Kings 20:33	Now the men observed diligently, and hasted to catch whether it were his mind; and they said, Thy brother Ben-hadad. Then he said, Go ye, bring him. Then Ben-hadad came forth to him; and he caused him to come up into the chariot.
Kings 20:34	And Ben-hadad'said unto him, The cities which my father took from thy father I will restore; and thou shalt make streets for thee in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria. And I,'said Ahab , will let thee go with this covenant. So he made a covenant with him, and let him go.
Kings 20:35	And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said unto his fellow by the word of Jehovah, Smite me, I pray thee. And the man refused to smite him.
Kings 20:36	Then said he unto him, Because thou hast not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, behold, as soon as thou art departed from me, a lion shall slay thee. And as soon as he was departed from him, a lion found him, and slew him.
Kings 20:37	Then he found another man, and said, Smite me, I pray thee. And the man smote him, smiting and wounding him.
Kings 20:38	So the prophet departed, and waited for the king by the way, and disguised himself with his headband over his eyes.
Kings 20:39	And as the king passed by, he cried unto the king; and he said, Thy servant went out into the midst of the battle; and, behold, a man turned aside, and brought a man unto me, and said, Keep this man: if by any means he be missing, then shall thy life be for his life, or else thou shalt pay a talent of silver.
Kings 20:40	And as thy servant was busy here and there, he was gone. And the king of Israel said unto him, So shall thy judgment be; thyself hast decided it.
Kings 20:41	And he hasted, and took the headband away from his eyes; and the king of israel discerned him that he was of the prophets.
Kings 20:42	And he said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Because thou hast let go out of thy hand the man whom I had devoted to destruction, therefore thy life shall go for his life, and thy people for his people.
Kings 20:43	And the king of Israel went to his house heavy and displeased, and came to Samaria.
Kings 21:1	And it came to pass after these things, that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Ahab king of Samaria.
Kings 21:2	And Ahab spake unto Naboth, saying, Give me thy vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near unto my house; and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it: or, if it seem good to thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money.
Kings 21:3	And Naboth said to Ahab, Jehovah forbid it me, that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee.
Kings 21:4	And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him; for he had said, I will not give thee the inheritance of my fathers. And he laid him down upon his bed, and turned away his face, and would eat no bread.
Kings 21:5	But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said unto him, Why is thy spirit so sad, that thou eatest no bread?
Kings 21:6	And he said unto her, Because I spake unto Naboth the Jezreelite, and said unto him, Give me thy vineyard for money; or else, if it please thee, I will give thee another vineyard for it: and he answered, I will not give thee my vineyard.
Kings 21:7	And Jezebel his wife said unto him, Dost thou now govern the kingdom of Israel? arise, and eat bread, and let thy heart be merry: I will give thee the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.
Kings 21:8	So she wrote letters in Ahab's name, and sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters unto the elders and to the nobles that were in his city, and that dwelt with Naboth.
Kings 21:9	And she wrote in the letters, saying, Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people:
Kings 21:10	and set two men, base fellows, before him, and let them bear witness against him, saying, Thou didst curse God and the king. And then carry him out, and stone him to death.
Kings 21:11	And the men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who dwelt in his city, did as Jezebel had sent unto them, according as it was written in the letters which she had sent unto them.
Kings 21:12	They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people.
Kings 21:13	And the two men, the base fellows, came in and sat before him: and the base fellows bare witness against him, even against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth did curse God and the king. Then they carried him forth out of the city, and stoned him to death with stones.
Kings 21:14	Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth is stoned, and is dead.
Kings 21:15	And it came to pass, when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned, and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give thee for money; for Naboth is not alive, but dead.
Kings 21:16	And it came to pass, when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to take possession of it.
Kings 21:17	And the word of Jehovah came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
Kings 21:18	Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, who dwelleth in Samaria: behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, whither he is gone down to take possession of it.
Kings 21:19	And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, Hast thou killed and also taken possession? And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, In the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth shall dogs lick thy blood, even thine.
Kings 21:20	And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? And he answered, I have found thee, because thou hast sold thyself to do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah.
Kings 21:21	Behold, I will bring evil upon thee, and will utterly sweep thee away and will cut off from Ahab every man-child, and him that is shut up and him that is left at large in Israel:
Kings 21:22	and I will make thy house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah for the provocation wherewith thou hast provoked me to anger, and hast made Israel to sin.
Kings 21:23	And of Jezebel also spake Jehovah, saying, The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the rampart of Jezreel.
Kings 21:24	Him that dieth of Ahab in the city the dogs shall eat; and him that dieth in the field shall the birds of the heavens eat.
Kings 21:25	(But there was none like unto Ahab, who did sell himself to do that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up.
Kings 21:26	And he did very abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites did, whom Jehovah cast out before the children of Israel.)
Kings 21:27	And it came to pass, when Ahab heard those words, that he rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his flesh, and fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly.
Kings 21:28	And the word of Jehovah came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
Kings 21:29	Seest thou how Ahab humbleth himself before me? because he humbleth himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days; but in his son's days will I bring the evil upon his house.
Kings 22:1	And they continued three years without war between Syria and Israel.
Kings 22:2	And it came to pass in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel.
Kings 22:3	And the king of Israel said unto his servants, Know ye that Ramoth-gilead is ours, and we are still, and take it not out of the hand of the king of Syria?
Kings 22:4	And he said unto Jehoshaphat, Wilt thou go with me to battle to Ramoth-gilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, I am as thou art, my people as thy people, my horses as thy horses.
Kings 22:5	And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Inquire first, I pray thee, for the word of Jehovah.
Kings 22:6	Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall I go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for the Lord will deliver it into the hand of the king.
Kings 22:7	But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of Jehovah besides, that we may inquire of him?
Kings 22:8	And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, there is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Jehovah, Micaiah the son of Imlah: but I hate him; for he doth not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.
Kings 22:9	Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imlah.
Kings 22:10	Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, in an open place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
Kings 22:11	And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron, and said, Thus saith Jehovah, With these shalt thou push the Syrians, until they be consumed.
Kings 22:12	And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and prosper; for Jehovah will deliver it into the hand of the king.
Kings 22:13	And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake unto him, saying, Behold now, the words of the prophets declare good unto the king with one mouth: let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of one of them, and speak thou good.
Kings 22:14	And Micaiah said, As Jehovah liveth, what Jehovah saith unto me, that will I speak.
Kings 22:15	And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And he answered him, Go up and prosper; and Jehovah will deliver it into the hand of the king.
Kings 22:16	And the king said unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou speak unto me nothing but the truth in the name of Jehovah?
Kings 22:17	And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd: and Jehovah said, These have no master; let them return every man to his house in peace.
Kings 22:18	And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?
Kings 22:19	And Micaiah'said, Therefore hear thou the word of Jehovah: I saw Jehovah sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left.
Kings 22:20	And Jehovah said, Who shall entice Ahab, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one said on this manner; and another said on that manner.
Kings 22:21	And there came forth a spirit, and stood before Jehovah, and said, I will entice him.
Kings 22:22	And Jehovah said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go forth, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, Thou shalt entice him, and shalt prevail also: go forth, and do so.
Kings 22:23	Now therefore, behold, Jehovah hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these thy prophets; and Jehovah hath spoken evil concerning thee.
Kings 22:24	Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of Jehovah from me to speak unto thee?
Kings 22:25	And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see on that day, when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.
Kings 22:26	And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back unto Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son;
Kings 22:27	and say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I come in peace.
Kings 22:28	And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, Jehovah hath not spoken by me. And he said, Hear, ye peoples, all of you.
Kings 22:29	So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
Kings 22:30	And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and go into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle.
Kings 22:31	Now the king of Syria had commanded the thirty and two captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel.
Kings 22:32	And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel; and they turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out.
Kings 22:33	And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.
Kings 22:34	And a certain man drew his bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the armor: wherefore he said unto the driver of his chariot, Turn thy hand, and carry me out of the host; for I am sore wounded.
Kings 22:35	And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even; and the blood ran out of the wound into the bottom of the chariot.
Kings 22:36	And there went a cry throughout the host about the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to his country.
Kings 22:37	So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried the king in Samaria.
Kings 22:38	And they washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria; and the dogs licked up his blood (now the harlots washed themselves there ); according unto the word of Jehovah which he spake.
Kings 22:39	Now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the ivory house which he built, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 22:40	So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 22:41	And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.
Kings 22:42	Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
Kings 22:43	And he walked in all the way of Asa his father; He turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah: howbeit the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
Kings 22:44	And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.
Kings 22:45	Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he showed, and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 22:46	And the remnant of the sodomites, that remained in the days of his father Asa, he put away out of the land.
Kings 22:47	And there was no king in Edom: a deputy was king.
Kings 22:48	Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold: but they went not; for the ships were broken at Ezion-geber.
Kings 22:49	Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not.
Kings 22:50	And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; And Jehoram his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 22:51	Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned two years over Israel.
Kings 22:52	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherein he made Israel to sin.
Kings 22:53	And he served Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger Jehovah, the God of Israel, according to all that his father had done.
Chronicles 1:1	Adam, Seth, Enosh,
Chronicles 1:2	Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared,
Chronicles 1:3	Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
Chronicles 1:4	Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Chronicles 1:5	The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
Chronicles 1:6	And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Diphath, and Togarmah.
Chronicles 1:7	And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim.
Chronicles 1:8	The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
Chronicles 1:9	And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raama, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba, and Dedan.
Chronicles 1:10	And Cush begat Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one in the earth.
Chronicles 1:11	And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
Chronicles 1:12	and Pathrusim, and Casluhim (from whence came the Philistines), and Caphtorim.
Chronicles 1:13	And Canaan begat Sidon his first-born, and Heth,
Chronicles 1:14	and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
Chronicles 1:15	and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
Chronicles 1:16	and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.
Chronicles 1:17	The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
Chronicles 1:18	And Arpachshad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.
Chronicles 1:19	And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
Chronicles 1:20	And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
Chronicles 1:21	and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
Chronicles 1:22	and Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
Chronicles 1:23	and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
Chronicles 1:24	Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah,
Chronicles 1:25	Eber, Peleg, Reu,
Chronicles 1:26	Serug, Nahor, Terah,
Chronicles 1:27	Abram (the same is Abraham).
Chronicles 1:28	The sons of Abraham: Isaac, and Ishmael.
Chronicles 1:29	These are their generations: the first-born of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
Chronicles 1:30	Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
Chronicles 1:31	Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
Chronicles 1:32	And the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba, and Dedan.
Chronicles 1:33	And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
Chronicles 1:34	And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau, and Israel.
Chronicles 1:35	The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah.
Chronicles 1:36	The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.
Chronicles 1:37	The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
Chronicles 1:38	And the sons of Seir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan.
Chronicles 1:39	And the sons of Lotan: Hori, and Homam; and Timna was Lotan's sister.
Chronicles 1:40	The sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah, and Anah.
Chronicles 1:41	The sons of Anah: Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Hamran, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
Chronicles 1:42	The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz, and Aran.
Chronicles 1:43	Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there resigned any king over the children of Israel: Bela the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
Chronicles 1:44	And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 1:45	And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 1:46	And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Avith.
Chronicles 1:47	And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 1:48	And Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the River reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 1:49	And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 1:50	And Baal-hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Pai: and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Me-zahab.
Chronicles 1:51	And Hadad died. And the chiefs of Edom were: chief Timna, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth,
Chronicles 1:52	chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon,
Chronicles 1:53	chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar,
Chronicles 1:54	chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom.
Chronicles 2:1	These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun,
Chronicles 2:2	Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
Chronicles 2:3	The sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah; which three were born unto him of Shua's daughter the Canaanitess. And Er, Judah's first-born, was wicked in the sight of Jehovah; and he slew him.
Chronicles 2:4	And Tamar his daughter-in-law bare him Perez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five.
Chronicles 2:5	The sons of Perez: Hezron, and Hamul.
Chronicles 2:6	And the sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; five of them in all.
Chronicles 2:7	And the sons of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who committed a trespass in the devoted thing.
Chronicles 2:8	And the sons of Ethan: Azariah.
Chronicles 2:9	The sons also of Hezron, that were born unto him: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.
Chronicles 2:10	And Ram begat Amminadab, and Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince of the children of Judah;
Chronicles 2:11	and Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz,
Chronicles 2:12	and Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse;
Chronicles 2:13	and Jesse begat his first-born Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third,
Chronicles 2:14	Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,
Chronicles 2:15	Ozem the sixth, David the seventh;
Chronicles 2:16	and their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel, three.
Chronicles 2:17	And Abigail bare Amasa; and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
Chronicles 2:18	And Caleb the son of Hezron begat children of Azubah his wife, and of Jerioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.
Chronicles 2:19	And Azubah died, and Caleb took unto him Ephrath, who bare him Hur.
Chronicles 2:20	And Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezalel.
Chronicles 2:21	And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he took to wife when he was threescore years old; and she bare him Segub.
Chronicles 2:22	And Segub begat Jair, who had three and twenty cities in the land of Gilead.
Chronicles 2:23	And Geshur and Aram took the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath, and the villages thereof, even threescore cities. All these were the sons of Machir the father of Gilead.
Chronicles 2:24	And after that Hezron was dead in Caleb-ephrathah, then Abijah Hezron's wife bare him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.
Chronicles 2:25	And the sons of Jerahmeel the first-born of Hezron were Ram the first-born, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, Ahijah.
Chronicles 2:26	And Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
Chronicles 2:27	And the sons of Ram the first-born of Jerahmeel were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker.
Chronicles 2:28	And the sons of Onam were Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab, and Abishur.
Chronicles 2:29	And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail; and she bare him Ahban, and Molid.
Chronicles 2:30	And the sons of Nadab: Seled, and Appaim; but Seled died without children.
Chronicles 2:31	And the sons of Appaim: Ishi. And the sons of Ishi: Sheshan. And the sons of Sheshan: Ahlai.
Chronicles 2:32	And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether, and Jonathan; and Jether died without children.
Chronicles 2:33	And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.
Chronicles 2:34	Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha.
Chronicles 2:35	And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife; and she bare him Attai.
Chronicles 2:36	And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad,
Chronicles 2:37	and Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed,
Chronicles 2:38	and Obed begat Jehu, and Jehu begat Azariah,
Chronicles 2:39	and Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begat Eleasah,
Chronicles 2:40	and Eleasah begat Sismai, and Sismai begat Shallum,
Chronicles 2:41	and Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begat Elishama.
Chronicles 2:42	And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his first-born, who was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron.
Chronicles 2:43	And the sons of Hebron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema.
Chronicles 2:44	And Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem begat Shammai.
Chronicles 2:45	And the son of Shammai was Maon; and Maon was the father of Beth-zur.
Chronicles 2:46	And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bare Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran begat Gazez.
Chronicles 2:47	And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jothan, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.
Chronicles 2:48	Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bare Sheber and Tirhanah.
Chronicles 2:49	She bare also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena, and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
Chronicles 2:50	These were the sons of Caleb, the son of Hur, the first-born of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim,
Chronicles 2:51	Salma the father of Beth-lehem, Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
Chronicles 2:52	And Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth.
Chronicles 2:53	And the families of Kiriath-jearim: The Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites.
Chronicles 2:54	The sons of Salma: Beth-lehem, and the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites.
Chronicles 2:55	And the families of scribes that dwelt at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, the Sucathites. These are the Kenites that came of Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.
Chronicles 3:1	Now these were the sons of David, that were born unto him in Hebron: the first-born, Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second, Daniel, of Abigail the Carmelitess;
Chronicles 3:2	the third, Absalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith;
Chronicles 3:3	the fifth, Shephatiah of Abital; the sixth, Ithream by Eglah his wife:
Chronicles 3:4	six were born unto him in Hebron; and there he reigned seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years;
Chronicles 3:5	and these were born unto him in Jerusalem: Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four, of Bath-shua the daughter of Ammiel;
Chronicles 3:6	and Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet,
Chronicles 3:7	and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
Chronicles 3:8	and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
Chronicles 3:9	All these were the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines; and Tamar was their sister.
Chronicles 3:10	And Solomon's son was Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
Chronicles 3:11	Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
Chronicles 3:12	Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
Chronicles 3:13	Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
Chronicles 3:14	Amon his son, Josiah his son.
Chronicles 3:15	And the sons of Josiah: the first-born Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
Chronicles 3:16	And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.
Chronicles 3:17	And the sons of Jeconiah, the captive: Shealtiel his son,
Chronicles 3:18	and Malchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
Chronicles 3:19	And the sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel, and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam, and Hananiah; and Shelomith was their sister;
Chronicles 3:20	and Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab-hesed, five.
Chronicles 3:21	And the sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah, and Jeshaiah; the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah.
Chronicles 3:22	And the sons of Shecaniah: Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, and Igal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
Chronicles 3:23	And the sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hizkiah, and Azrikam, three.
Chronicles 3:24	And the sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven.
Chronicles 4:1	The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
Chronicles 4:2	And Reaiah the son of Shobal begat Jahath; and Jahath begat Ahumai and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.
Chronicles 4:3	And these were the sons of the father of Etam: Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi;
Chronicles 4:4	and Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the first-born of Ephrathah, the father of Beth-lehem.
Chronicles 4:5	And Ashhur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
Chronicles 4:6	And Naarah bare him Ahuzzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.
Chronicles 4:7	And the sons of Helah were Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.
Chronicles 4:8	And Hakkoz begat Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum.
Chronicles 4:9	And Jabez was more honorable than his brethren: and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bare him with sorrow.
Chronicles 4:10	And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my border, and that thy hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it be not to my sorrow! And God granted him that which he requested.
Chronicles 4:11	And Chelub the brother of Shuhah begat Mehir, who was the father of Eshton.
Chronicles 4:12	And Eshton begat Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Recah.
Chronicles 4:13	And the sons of Kenaz: Othniel, and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel: Hathath.
Chronicles 4:14	And Meonothai begat Ophrah: and Seraiah begat Joab the father of Ge-harashim; for they were craftsmen.
Chronicles 4:15	And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam; and the sons of Elah; and Kenaz.
Chronicles 4:16	And the sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel.
Chronicles 4:17	And the sons of Ezrah: Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon; and she bare Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa.
Chronicles 4:18	And his wife the Jewess bare Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took.
Chronicles 4:19	And the sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maacathite.
Chronicles 4:20	And the sons of Shimon: Amnon, and Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi: Zoheth, and Ben-zoheth.
Chronicles 4:21	The sons of Shelah the son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of them that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea;
Chronicles 4:22	and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had dominion in Moab, and Jashubilehem. And the records are ancient.
Chronicles 4:23	These were the potters, and the inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah: there they dwelt with the king for his work.
Chronicles 4:24	The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
Chronicles 4:25	Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
Chronicles 4:26	And the sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
Chronicles 4:27	And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brethren had not many children, neither did all their family multiply like to the children of Judah.
Chronicles 4:28	And they dwelt at Beer-sheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual,
Chronicles 4:29	and at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,
Chronicles 4:30	and at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,
Chronicles 4:31	and at Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susim, and at Beth-biri, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities unto the reign of David.
Chronicles 4:32	And their villages were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities;
Chronicles 4:33	and all their villages that were round about the same cities, unto Baal. These were their habitations, and they have their genealogy.
Chronicles 4:34	And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah,
Chronicles 4:35	and Joel, and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,
Chronicles 4:36	and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,
Chronicles 4:37	and Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah-
Chronicles 4:38	these mentioned by name were princes in their families: and their fathers houses increased greatly.
Chronicles 4:39	And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.
Chronicles 4:40	And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and quiet, and peaceable; for they that dwelt there aforetime were of Ham.
Chronicles 4:41	And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and smote their tents, and the Meunim that were found there, and destroyed them utterly unto this day, and dwelt in their stead; because there was pasture there for their flocks.
Chronicles 4:42	And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
Chronicles 4:43	And they smote the remnant of the Amalekites that escaped, and have dwelt there unto this day.
Chronicles 5:1	And the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel (for he was the first-born; but, forasmuch as he defiled his father's couch, his birthright was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel; and the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright.
Chronicles 5:2	For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the prince; but the birthright was Joseph's:)
Chronicles 5:3	the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
Chronicles 5:4	The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
Chronicles 5:5	Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
Chronicles 5:6	Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria carried away captive: he was prince of the Reubenites.
Chronicles 5:7	And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned: the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah,
Chronicles 5:8	and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt in Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baal-meon:
Chronicles 5:9	and eastward he dwelt even unto the entrance of the wilderness from the river Euphrates, because their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead.
Chronicles 5:10	And in the days of Saul, they made war with the Hagrites, who fell by their hand; and they dwelt in their tents throughout all the land east of Gilead.
Chronicles 5:11	And the sons of Gad dwelt over against them, in the land of Bashan unto Salecah:
Chronicles 5:12	Joel the chief, and Shapham the second, and Janai, and Shaphat in Bashan.
Chronicles 5:13	And their brethren of their fathers houses: Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jacan, and Zia, and Eber, seven.
Chronicles 5:14	These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz;
Chronicles 5:15	Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, chief of their fathers houses.
Chronicles 5:16	And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in its towns, and in all the suburbs of Sharon, as far as their borders.
Chronicles 5:17	All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.
Chronicles 5:18	The sons of Reuben, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword, and to shoot with bow, and skilful in war, were forty and four thousand seven hundred and threescore, that were able to go forth to war.
Chronicles 5:19	And they made war with the Hagrites, with Jetur, and Naphish, and Nodab.
Chronicles 5:20	And they were helped against them, and the Hagrites were delivered into their hand, and all that were with them; for they cried to God in the battle, and he was entreated of them, because they put their trust in him.
Chronicles 5:21	And they took away their cattle; of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two thousand, and of men a hundred thousand.
Chronicles 5:22	For there fell many slain, because the war was of God. And they dwelt in their stead until the captivity.
Chronicles 5:23	And the children of the half-tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land: they increased from Bashan unto Baal-hermon and Senir and mount Hermon.
Chronicles 5:24	And these were the heads of their fathers houses: even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valor, famous men, heads of their fathers houses.
Chronicles 5:25	And they trespassed against the God of their fathers, and played the harlot after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God destroyed before them.
Chronicles 5:26	And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria, and he carried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and to the river of Gozan, unto this day.
Chronicles 6:1	The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
Chronicles 6:2	And the sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
Chronicles 6:3	And the children of Amram: Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. And the sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Chronicles 6:4	Eleazar begat Phinehas, Phinehas begat Abishua,
Chronicles 6:5	and Abishua begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi,
Chronicles 6:6	and Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begat Meraioth,
Chronicles 6:7	Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub,
Chronicles 6:8	and Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz,
Chronicles 6:9	and Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan,
Chronicles 6:10	and Johanan begat Azariah, (he it is that executed the priest's office in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem),
Chronicles 6:11	and Azariah begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub,
Chronicles 6:12	and Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Shallum,
Chronicles 6:13	and Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begat Azariah,
Chronicles 6:14	and Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadak;
Chronicles 6:15	And Jehozadak went into captivity , when Jehovah carried away Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
Chronicles 6:16	The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
Chronicles 6:17	And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
Chronicles 6:18	And the sons of Kohath were Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
Chronicles 6:19	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers  houses .
Chronicles 6:20	Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
Chronicles 6:21	Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
Chronicles 6:22	The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
Chronicles 6:23	Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,
Chronicles 6:24	Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
Chronicles 6:25	And the sons of Elkanah: Amasai, and Ahimoth.
Chronicles 6:26	As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, and Nahath his son,
Chronicles 6:27	Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
Chronicles 6:28	And the sons of Samuel: the first-born Joel , and the second Abijah.
Chronicles 6:29	The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,
Chronicles 6:30	Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
Chronicles 6:31	And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the house of Jehovah, after that the ark had rest.
Chronicles 6:32	And they ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, until Solomon had built the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem: and they waited on their office according to their order.
Chronicles 6:33	And these are they that waited, and their sons. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel,
Chronicles 6:34	the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,
Chronicles 6:35	the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,
Chronicles 6:36	the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,
Chronicles 6:37	the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,
Chronicles 6:38	the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel.
Chronicles 6:39	And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea,
Chronicles 6:40	the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah,
Chronicles 6:41	the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,
Chronicles 6:42	the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,
Chronicles 6:43	the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi.
Chronicles 6:44	And on the left hand their brethren the sons of Merari: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,
Chronicles 6:45	the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,
Chronicles 6:46	the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer,
Chronicles 6:47	the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.
Chronicles 6:48	And their brethren the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
Chronicles 6:49	But Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of burnt-offering, and upon the altar of incense, for all the work of the most holy place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
Chronicles 6:50	And these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
Chronicles 6:51	Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
Chronicles 6:52	Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
Chronicles 6:53	Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
Chronicles 6:54	Now these are their dwelling-places according to their encampments in their borders: to the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites (for theirs was the first lot),
Chronicles 6:55	to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbs thereof round about it;
Chronicles 6:56	but the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
Chronicles 6:57	And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge, Hebron; Libnah also with its suburbs, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa with its suburbs,
Chronicles 6:58	and Hilen with its suburbs, Debir with its suburbs,
Chronicles 6:59	and Ashan with its suburbs, and Beth-shemesh with its suburbs;
Chronicles 6:60	and out of the tribe of Benjamin, Geba with its suburbs, and Allemeth with its suburbs, and Anathoth with its suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities.
Chronicles 6:61	And unto the rest of the sons of Kohath were given by lot, out of the family of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, the half of Manasseh, ten cities.
Chronicles 6:62	And to the sons of Gershom, according to their families, out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
Chronicles 6:63	Unto the sons of Merari were given by lot, according to their families, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
Chronicles 6:64	And the children of Israel gave to the Levites the cities with their suburbs.
Chronicles 6:65	And they gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the children of Benjamin, these cities which are mentioned by name.
Chronicles 6:66	And some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their borders out of the tribe of Ephraim.
Chronicles 6:67	And they gave unto them the cities of refuge, Shechem in the hill-country of Ephraim with its suburbs; Gezer also with its suburbs,
Chronicles 6:68	and Jokmeam with its suburbs, and Beth-horon with its suburbs,
Chronicles 6:69	and Aijalon with its suburbs, and Gath-rimmon with its suburbs;
Chronicles 6:70	and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Aner with its suburbs, and Bileam with its suburbs, for the rest of the family of the sons of Kohath.
Chronicles 6:71	Unto the sons of Gershom were given , out of the family of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with its suburbs, and Ashtaroth with its suburbs;
Chronicles 6:72	and out of the tribe of Issachar, Kedesh with its suburbs, Daberath with its suburbs,
Chronicles 6:73	and Ramoth with its suburbs, and Anem with its suburbs;
Chronicles 6:74	and out of the tribe of Asher, Mashal with its suburbs, and Abdon with its suburbs,
Chronicles 6:75	and Hukok with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs;
Chronicles 6:76	and out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its suburbs, and Hammon with its suburbs, and Kiriathaim with its suburbs.
Chronicles 6:77	Unto the rest of the Levites , the sons of Merari, were given , out of the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmono with its suburbs, Tabor with its suburbs;
Chronicles 6:78	and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, were given them , out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness with its suburbs, and Jahzah with its suburbs,
Chronicles 6:79	and Kedemoth with its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs;
Chronicles 6:80	and out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its suburbs, and Mahanaim with its suburbs,
Chronicles 6:81	and Heshbon with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs.
Chronicles 7:1	And of the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.
Chronicles 7:2	And the sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Ibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers houses, to wit , of Tola; mighty men of valor in their generations: their number in the days of David was two and twenty thousand and six hundred.
Chronicles 7:3	And the sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Isshiah, five; all of them chief men.
Chronicles 7:4	And with them, by their generations, after their fathers houses, were bands of the host for war, six and thirty thousand; for they had many wives and sons.
Chronicles 7:5	And their brethren among all the families of Issachar, mighty men of valor, reckoned in all by genealogy, were fourscore and seven thousand.
Chronicles 7:6	The sons of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.
Chronicles 7:7	And the sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of fathers houses, mighty men of valor; and they were reckoned by genealogy twenty and two thousand and thirty and four.
Chronicles 7:8	And the sons of Becher: Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jeremoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alemeth. All these were the sons of Becher.
Chronicles 7:9	And they were reckoned by genealogy, after their generations, heads of their fathers houses, mighty men of valor, twenty thousand and two hundred.
Chronicles 7:10	And the sons of Jediael: Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar.
Chronicles 7:11	All these were sons of Jediael, according to the heads of their fathers  houses , mighty men of valor, seventeen thousand and two hundred, that were able to go forth in the host for war.
Chronicles 7:12	Shuppim also, and Huppim, the sons of Ir, Hushim, the sons of Aher.
Chronicles 7:13	The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.
Chronicles 7:14	The sons of Manasseh: Asriel, whom his concubine the Aramitess bare: she bare Machir the father of Gilead:
Chronicles 7:15	and Machir took a wife of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister's name was Maacah; and the name of the second was Zelophehad: and Zelophehad had daughters.
Chronicles 7:16	And Maacah the wife of Machir bare a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
Chronicles 7:17	And the sons of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.
Chronicles 7:18	And his sister Hammolecheth bare Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah.
Chronicles 7:19	And the sons of Shemida were Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.
Chronicles 7:20	And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eleadah his son, and Tahath his son,
Chronicles 7:21	and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gath that were born in the land slew, because they came down to take away their cattle.
Chronicles 7:22	And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came to comfort him.
Chronicles 7:23	And he went in to his wife, and she conceived, and bare a son, and he called his name Beriah, because it went evil with his house.
Chronicles 7:24	And his daughter was Sheerah, who built Beth-horon the nether and the upper, and Uzzen-sheerah.
Chronicles 7:25	And Rephah was his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son,
Chronicles 7:26	Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
Chronicles 7:27	Nun his son, Joshua his son.
Chronicles 7:28	And their possessions and habitations were Beth-el and the towns thereof, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer, with the towns thereof; Shechem also and the towns thereof, unto Azzah and the towns thereof;
Chronicles 7:29	and by the borders of the children of Manasseh, Beth-shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and its towns, Dor and its towns. In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son of Israel.
Chronicles 7:30	The sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.
Chronicles 7:31	And the sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel, who was the father of Birzaith.
Chronicles 7:32	And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
Chronicles 7:33	And the sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the children of Japhlet.
Chronicles 7:34	And the sons of Shemer: Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.
Chronicles 7:35	And the sons of Helem his brother: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.
Chronicles 7:36	The sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,
Chronicles 7:37	Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.
Chronicles 7:38	And the sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispa, and Ara.
Chronicles 7:39	And the sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rizia.
Chronicles 7:40	All these were the children of Asher, heads of the fathers houses, choice and mighty men of valor, chief of the princes. And the number of them reckoned by genealogy for service in war was twenty and six thousand men.
Chronicles 8:1	And Benjamin begat Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,
Chronicles 8:2	Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
Chronicles 8:3	And Bela had sons: Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,
Chronicles 8:4	and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,
Chronicles 8:5	and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
Chronicles 8:6	And these are the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of fathers  houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they carried them captive to Manahath:
Chronicles 8:7	and Naaman, and Ahijah, and Gera, he carried them captive: and he begat Uzza and Ahihud.
Chronicles 8:8	And Shaharaim begat children in the field of Moab, after he had sent them away; Hushim and Baara were his wives.
Chronicles 8:9	And he begat of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam,
Chronicles 8:10	and Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers  houses .
Chronicles 8:11	And of Hushim he begat Abitub and Elpaal.
Chronicles 8:12	And the sons of Elpaal: Eber, and Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod, with the towns thereof;
Chronicles 8:13	and Beriah, and Shema, who were heads of fathers  houses of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath;
Chronicles 8:14	and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,
Chronicles 8:15	and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder,
Chronicles 8:16	and Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, the sons of Beriah,
Chronicles 8:17	and Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber,
Chronicles 8:18	and Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal,
Chronicles 8:19	and Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,
Chronicles 8:20	and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel,
Chronicles 8:21	and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons of Shimei,
Chronicles 8:22	and Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel,
Chronicles 8:23	and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
Chronicles 8:24	and Hananiah, and Elam, and Anthothijah,
Chronicles 8:25	and Iphdeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak,
Chronicles 8:26	and Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,
Chronicles 8:27	and Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri, the sons of Jeroham.
Chronicles 8:28	These were heads of fathers  houses throughout their generations, chief men: these dwelt in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 8:29	And in Gibeon there dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jeiel , whose wife's name was Maacah;
Chronicles 8:30	and his first-born son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
Chronicles 8:31	and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher.
Chronicles 8:32	And Mikloth begat Shimeah. And they also dwelt with their brethren in Jerusalem, over against their brethren.
Chronicles 8:33	And Ner begat Kish; and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchi-shua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
Chronicles 8:34	And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal begat Micah.
Chronicles 8:35	And the sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
Chronicles 8:36	And Ahaz begat Jehoaddah; and Jehoaddah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza.
Chronicles 8:37	And Moza begat Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
Chronicles 8:38	And Azel had six sons, whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
Chronicles 8:39	And the sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his first-born, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
Chronicles 8:40	And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valor, archers, and had many sons, and sons'sons, a hundred and fifty. All these were of the sons of Benjamin.
Chronicles 9:1	So all Israel were reckoned by genealogies; and, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel: and Judah was carried away captive to Babylon for their transgression.
Chronicles 9:2	Now the first inhabitants that dwelt in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the Nethinim.
Chronicles 9:3	And in Jerusalem dwelt of the children of Judah, and of the children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim and Manasseh:
Chronicles 9:4	Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the children of Perez the son of Judah.
Chronicles 9:5	And of the Shilonites: Asaiah the first-born, and his sons.
Chronicles 9:6	And of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel, and their brethren, six hundred and ninety.
Chronicles 9:7	And of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah,
Chronicles 9:8	and Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;
Chronicles 9:9	and their brethren, according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty and six. All these men were heads of fathers  houses by their fathers houses.
Chronicles 9:10	And of the priests: Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, Jachin,
Chronicles 9:11	and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God;
Chronicles 9:12	and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, and Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;
Chronicles 9:13	and their brethren, heads of their fathers houses, a thousand and seven hundred and threescore; very able men for the work of the service of the house of God.
Chronicles 9:14	And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
Chronicles 9:15	and Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph,
Chronicles 9:16	and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, that dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.
Chronicles 9:17	And the porters: Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brethren (Shallum was the chief),
Chronicles 9:18	who hitherto waited in the king's gate eastward: they were the porters for the camp of the children of Levi.
Chronicles 9:19	And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brethren, of his father's house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent: and their fathers had been over the camp of Jehovah, keepers of the entry.
Chronicles 9:20	And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was ruler over them in time past, and Jehovah was with him.
Chronicles 9:21	Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was porter of the door of the tent of meeting.
Chronicles 9:22	All these that were chosen to be porters in the thresholds were two hundred and twelve. These were reckoned by genealogy in their villages, whom David and Samuel the seer did ordain in their office of trust.
Chronicles 9:23	So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of the house of Jehovah, even the house of the tent, by wards.
Chronicles 9:24	On the four sides were the porters, toward the east, west, north, and south.
Chronicles 9:25	And their brethren, in their villages, were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them:
Chronicles 9:26	for the four chief porters, who were Levites, were in an office of trust, and were over the chambers and over the treasuries in the house of God.
Chronicles 9:27	And they lodged round about the house of God, because the charge thereof was upon them; and to them pertained the opening thereof morning by morning.
Chronicles 9:28	And certain of them had charge of the vessels of service; for by count were these brought in and by count were these taken out.
Chronicles 9:29	Some of them also were appointed over the furniture, and over all the vessels of the sanctuary, and over the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices.
Chronicles 9:30	And some of the sons of the priests prepared the confection of the spices.
Chronicles 9:31	And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the first-born of Shallum the Korahite, had the office of trust over the things that were baked in pans.
Chronicles 9:32	And some of their brethren, of the sons of the Kohathites, were over the showbread, to prepare it every sabbath.
Chronicles 9:33	And these are the singers, heads of fathers  houses of the Levites, who dwelt in the chambers and were free from other service ; for they were employed in their work day and night.
Chronicles 9:34	These were heads of fathers  houses of the Levites, throughout their generations, chief men: these dwelt at Jerusalem.
Chronicles 9:35	And in Gibeon there dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, whose wife's name was Maacah:
Chronicles 9:36	and his first-born son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,
Chronicles 9:37	and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.
Chronicles 9:38	And Mikloth begat Shimeam. And they also dwelt with their brethren in Jerusalem, over against their brethren.
Chronicles 9:39	And Ner begat Kish; and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
Chronicles 9:40	And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal begat Micah.
Chronicles 9:41	And the sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and Ahaz .
Chronicles 9:42	And Ahaz begat Jarah; and Jarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza;
Chronicles 9:43	and Moza begat Binea; and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
Chronicles 9:44	And Azel had six sons, whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: these were the sons of Azel.
Chronicles 10:1	Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Chronicles 10:2	And the Philistines followed hard after Saul and after his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
Chronicles 10:3	And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was distressed by reason of the archers.
Chronicles 10:4	Then said Saul unto his armor-bearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his armor-bearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
Chronicles 10:5	And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died.
Chronicles 10:6	So Saul died, and his three sons; and all his house died together.
Chronicles 10:7	And when all the men of Israel that were in the valley saw that they fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
Chronicles 10:8	And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
Chronicles 10:9	And they stripped him, and took his head, and his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings unto their idols, and to the people.
Chronicles 10:10	And they put his armor in the house of their gods, and fastened his head in the house of Dagon.
Chronicles 10:11	And when all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
Chronicles 10:12	all the valiant men arose, and took away the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh, and buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Chronicles 10:13	So Saul died for his trespass which he committed against Jehovah, because of the word of Jehovah, which he kept not; and also for that he asked counsel of one that had a familiar spirit, to inquire thereby ,
Chronicles 10:14	and inquired not of Jehovah: therefore he slew him, and turned the kingdom unto David the son of Jesse.
Chronicles 11:1	Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.
Chronicles 11:2	In times past, even when Saul was king, it was thou that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and Jehovah thy God said unto thee, Thou shalt be shepherd of my people Israel, and thou shalt be prince over my people Israel.
Chronicles 11:3	So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before Jehovah; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of Jehovah by Samuel.
Chronicles 11:4	And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (the same is Jebus); and the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were there.
Chronicles 11:5	And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not come in hither. Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion; the same is the city of David.
Chronicles 11:6	And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain. And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, and was made chief.
Chronicles 11:7	And David dwelt in the stronghold; therefore they called it the city of David.
Chronicles 11:8	And he built the city round about, from Millo even round about; and Joab repaired the rest of the city.
Chronicles 11:9	And David waxed greater and greater; for Jehovah of hosts was with him.
Chronicles 11:10	Now these are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who showed themselves strong with him in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of Jehovah concerning Israel.
Chronicles 11:11	And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them at one time.
Chronicles 11:12	And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men.
Chronicles 11:13	He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were gathered together to battle, where was a plot of ground full of barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines.
Chronicles 11:14	And they stood in the midst of the plot, and defended it, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah saved them by a great victory.
Chronicles 11:15	And three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the Philistines were encamped in the valley of Rephaim.
Chronicles 11:16	And David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem.
Chronicles 11:17	And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me water to drink of the well of Beth-lehem, which is by the gate!
Chronicles 11:18	And the three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David: but David would not drink thereof, but poured it out unto Jehovah,
Chronicles 11:19	and said, My God forbid it me, that I should do this: shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives in jeopardy? for with the jeopardy of their lives they brought it. Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.
Chronicles 11:20	And Abishai, the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three; for he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them, and had a name among the three.
Chronicles 11:21	Of the three, he was more honorable than the two, and was made their captain: howbeit he attained not to the first three.
Chronicles 11:22	Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, he slew the two'sons of Ariel of Moab: he went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow.
Chronicles 11:23	And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits high; and in the Egyptian's hand was a spear like a weaver's beam; and he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear.
Chronicles 11:24	These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had a name among the three mighty men.
Chronicles 11:25	Behold, he was more honorable than the thirty, but he attained not to the first three: and David set him over his guard.
Chronicles 11:26	Also the mighty men of the armies: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beth-lehem,
Chronicles 11:27	Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,
Chronicles 11:28	Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite,
Chronicles 11:29	Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
Chronicles 11:30	Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite,
Chronicles 11:31	Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,
Chronicles 11:32	Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
Chronicles 11:33	Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
Chronicles 11:34	the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite,
Chronicles 11:35	Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,
Chronicles 11:36	Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
Chronicles 11:37	Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai,
Chronicles 11:38	Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri,
Chronicles 11:39	Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armorbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,
Chronicles 11:40	Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
Chronicles 11:41	Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,
Chronicles 11:42	Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him,
Chronicles 11:43	Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,
Chronicles 11:44	Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite,
Chronicles 11:45	Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,
Chronicles 11:46	Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,
Chronicles 11:47	Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.
Chronicles 12:1	Now these are they that came to David to Ziklag, while he yet kept himself close because of Saul the son of Kish; and they were among the mighty men, his helpers in war.
Chronicles 12:2	They were armed with bows, and could use both the right hand and the left in slinging stones and in shooting arrows from the bow: they were of Saul's brethren of Benjamin.
Chronicles 12:3	The chief was Ahiezer; then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite, and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah, and Jehu the Anathothite,
Chronicles 12:4	and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty, and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Jozabad the Gederathite,
Chronicles 12:5	Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite,
Chronicles 12:6	Elkanah, and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korahites,
Chronicles 12:7	and Joelah, and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.
Chronicles 12:8	And of the Gadites there separated themselves unto David to the stronghold in the wilderness, mighty men of valor, men trained for war, that could handle shield and spear; whose faces were like the faces of lions, and they were as swift as the roes upon the mountains;
Chronicles 12:9	Ezer the chief, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,
Chronicles 12:10	Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,
Chronicles 12:11	Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,
Chronicles 12:12	Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,
Chronicles 12:13	Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh.
Chronicles 12:14	These of the sons of Gad were captains of the host: he that was least was equal to a hundred, and the greatest to a thousand.
Chronicles 12:15	These are they that went over the Jordan in the first month, when it had overflowed all its banks; and they put to flight all them of the valleys, both toward the east, and toward the west.
Chronicles 12:16	And there came of the children of Benjamin and Judah to the stronghold unto David.
Chronicles 12:17	And David went out to meet them, and answered and said unto them, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, my heart shall be knit unto you; but if ye be come to betray me to mine adversaries, seeing there is no wrong in my hands, the God of our fathers look thereon, and rebuke it.
Chronicles 12:18	Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the thirty, and he said , Thine are we, David, and on thy side, thou son of Jesse: peace, peace be unto thee, and peace be to thy helpers; for thy God helpeth thee. Then David received them, and made them captains of the band.
Chronicles 12:19	Of Manasseh also there fell away some to David, when he came with the Philistines against Saul to battle: but they helped them not; for the lords of the Philistines upon advisement sent him away, saying, He will fall away to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads.
Chronicles 12:20	As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of Manasseh, Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai, captains of thousands that were of Manasseh.
Chronicles 12:21	And they helped David against the band of rovers: for they were all mighty men of valor, and were captains in the host.
Chronicles 12:22	For from day to day men came to David to help him, until there was a great host, like the host of God.
Chronicles 12:23	And these are the numbers of the heads of them that were armed for war, who came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of Jehovah.
Chronicles 12:24	The children of Judah that bare shield and spear were six thousand and eight hundred, armed for war.
Chronicles 12:25	Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valor for the war, seven thousand and one hundred.
Chronicles 12:26	Of the children of Levi four thousand and six hundred.
Chronicles 12:27	And Jehoiada was the leader of the house of Aaron; and with him were three thousand and seven hundred,
Chronicles 12:28	and Zadok, a young man mighty of valor, and of his father's house twenty and two captains.
Chronicles 12:29	And of the children of Benjamin, the brethren of Saul, three thousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept their allegiance to the house of Saul.
Chronicles 12:30	And of the children of Ephraim twenty thousand and eight hundred, mighty men of valor, famous men in their fathers houses.
Chronicles 12:31	And of the half-tribe of Manasseh eighteen thousand, who were mentioned by name, to come and make David king.
Chronicles 12:32	And of the children of Issachar, men that had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do, the heads of them were two hundred; and all their brethren were at their commandment.
Chronicles 12:33	Of Zebulun, such as were able to go out in the host, that could set the battle in array, with all manner of instruments of war, fifty thousand, and that could order the battle array, and were not of double heart.
Chronicles 12:34	And of Naphtali a thousand captains, and with them with shield and spear thirty and seven thousand.
Chronicles 12:35	And of the Danites that could set the battle in array, twenty and eight thousand and six hundred.
Chronicles 12:36	And of Asher, such as were able to go out in the host, that could set the battle in array, forty thousand.
Chronicles 12:37	And on the other side of the Jordan, of the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and of the half-tribe of Manasseh, with all manner of instruments of war for the battle, a hundred and twenty thousand.
Chronicles 12:38	All these being men of war, that could order the battle array, came with a perfect heart to Hebron, to make David king over all Israel: and all the rest also of Israel were of one heart to make David king.
Chronicles 12:39	And they were there with David three days, eating and drinking; for their brethren had made preparation for them.
Chronicles 12:40	Moreover they that were nigh unto them, even as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought bread on asses, and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen, victuals of meal, cakes of figs, and clusters of raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep in abundance: for there was joy in Israel.
Chronicles 13:1	And David consulted with the captains of thousands and of hundreds, even with every leader.
Chronicles 13:2	And David said unto all the assembly of Israel, If it seem good unto you, and if it be of Jehovah our God, let us send abroad every where unto our brethren that are left in all the land of Israel, with whom the priests and Levites are in their cities that have suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us;
Chronicles 13:3	and let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for we sought not unto it in the days of Saul.
Chronicles 13:4	And all the assembly said that they would do so; for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people.
Chronicles 13:5	So David assembled all Israel together, from the Shihor the brook of Egypt even unto the entrance of Hamath, to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim.
Chronicles 13:6	And David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, that is , to Kiriath-jearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up from thence the ark of God Jehovah that sitteth above the cherubim, that is called by the Name.
Chronicles 13:7	And they carried the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab: and Uzza and Ahio drove the cart.
Chronicles 13:8	And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, even with songs, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.
Chronicles 13:9	And when they came unto the threshing-floor of Chidon, Uzza put forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled.
Chronicles 13:10	And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Uzza, and he smote him, because he put forth his hand to the ark; and there he died before God.
Chronicles 13:11	And David was displeased, because Jehovah had broken forth upon Uzza; and he called that place Perez-uzza, unto this day.
Chronicles 13:12	And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of God home to me?
Chronicles 13:13	So David removed not the ark unto him into the city of David, but carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
Chronicles 13:14	And the ark of God remained with the family of Obed-edom in his house three months: and Jehovah blessed the house of Obed-edom, and all that he had.
Chronicles 14:1	And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar-trees, and masons, and carpenters, to build him a house.
Chronicles 14:2	And David perceived that Jehovah had established him king over Israel; for his kingdom was exalted on high, for his people Israel's sake.
Chronicles 14:3	And David took more wives at Jerusalem; and David begat more sons and daughters.
Chronicles 14:4	And these are the names of the children whom he had in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,
Chronicles 14:5	and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet,
Chronicles 14:6	and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
Chronicles 14:7	and Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.
Chronicles 14:8	And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David: and David heard of it, and went out against them.
Chronicles 14:9	Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim.
Chronicles 14:10	And David inquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And Jehovah said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thy hand.
Chronicles 14:11	So they came up to Baal-perazim, and David smote them there; and David said, God hath broken mine enemies by my hand, like the breach of waters. Therefore they called the name of that place Baal-perazim.
Chronicles 14:12	And they left their gods there; and David gave commandment, and they were burned with fire.
Chronicles 14:13	And the Philistines yet again made a raid in the valley.
Chronicles 14:14	And David inquired again of God; and God said unto him, Thou shalt not go up after them: turn away from them, and come upon them over against the mulberry-trees.
Chronicles 14:15	And it shall be, when thou hearest the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry-trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle; for God is gone out before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.
Chronicles 14:16	And David did as God commanded him: and they smote the host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gezer.
Chronicles 14:17	And the fame of David went out into all lands; and Jehovah brought the fear of him upon all nations.
Chronicles 15:1	And David made him houses in the city of David; and he prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.
Chronicles 15:2	Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites: for them hath Jehovah chosen to carry the ark of God, and to minister unto him for ever.
Chronicles 15:3	And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of Jehovah unto its place, which he had prepared for it.
Chronicles 15:4	And David gathered together the sons of Aaron, and the Levites:
Chronicles 15:5	of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and his brethren a hundred and twenty;
Chronicles 15:6	of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred and twenty;
Chronicles 15:7	of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and his brethren a hundred and thirty;
Chronicles 15:8	of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred;
Chronicles 15:9	of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore;
Chronicles 15:10	of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and his brethren a hundred and twelve.
Chronicles 15:11	And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab,
Chronicles 15:12	and said unto them, Ye are the heads of the fathers  houses of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of Jehovah, the God of Israel, unto the place that I have prepared for it.
Chronicles 15:13	For because ye bare it not at the first, Jehovah our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not according to the ordinance.
Chronicles 15:14	So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Chronicles 15:15	And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the word of Jehovah.
Chronicles 15:16	And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brethren the singers, with instruments of music, psalteries and harps and cymbals, sounding aloud and lifting up the voice with joy.
Chronicles 15:17	So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;
Chronicles 15:18	and with them their brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the doorkeepers.
Chronicles 15:19	So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed with cymbals of brass to sound aloud;
Chronicles 15:20	and Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with psalteries set to Alamoth;
Chronicles 15:21	and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps set to the Sheminith, to lead.
Chronicles 15:22	And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was over the song: he instructed about the song, because he was skilful.
Chronicles 15:23	And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.
Chronicles 15:24	And Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow the trumpets before the ark of God: and Obed-edom and Jehiah were doorkeepers for the ark.
Chronicles 15:25	So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of the house of Obed-edom with joy.
Chronicles 15:26	And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, that they sacrificed seven bullocks and seven rams.
Chronicles 15:27	And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master of the song with the singers: and David had upon him an ephod of linen.
Chronicles 15:28	Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, sounding aloud with psalteries and harps.
Chronicles 15:29	And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came to the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at the window, and saw king David dancing and playing; and she despised him in her heart.
Chronicles 16:1	And they brought in the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it: and they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before God.
Chronicles 16:2	And when David had made an end of offering the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Jehovah.
Chronicles 16:3	And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every one a loaf of bread, and a portion of flesh , and a cake of raisins.
Chronicles 16:4	And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the ark of Jehovah, and to celebrate and to thank and praise Jehovah, the God of Israel:
Chronicles 16:5	Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with psalteries and with harps; and Asaph with cymbals, sounding aloud;
Chronicles 16:6	and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually, before the ark of the covenant of God.
Chronicles 16:7	Then on that day did David first ordain to give thanks unto Jehovah, by the hand of Asaph and his brethren.
Chronicles 16:8	O give thanks unto Jehovah, call upon his name; Make known his doings among the peoples.
Chronicles 16:9	Sing unto him, sing praises unto him; Talk ye of all his marvellous works.
Chronicles 16:10	Glory ye in his holy name; Let the heart of them rejoice that seek Jehovah.
Chronicles 16:11	Seek ye Jehovah and his strength; Seek his face evermore.
Chronicles 16:12	Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, His wonders, and the judgments of his mouth,
Chronicles 16:13	O ye seed of Israel his servant, Ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones.
Chronicles 16:14	He is Jehovah our God; His judgments are in all the earth.
Chronicles 16:15	Remember his covenant for ever, The word which he commanded to a thousand generations,
Chronicles 16:16	The covenant which he made with Abraham, And his oath unto Isaac,
Chronicles 16:17	And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a statute, To Israel for an everlasting covenant,
Chronicles 16:18	Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, The lot of your inheritance;
Chronicles 16:19	When ye were but a few men in number, Yea, very few, and sojourners in it;
Chronicles 16:20	And they went about from nation to nation, And from one kingdom to another people.
Chronicles 16:21	He suffered no man to do them wrong; Yea, he reproved kings for their sakes,
Chronicles 16:22	Saying , Touch not mine anointed ones, And do my prophets no harm.
Chronicles 16:23	Sing unto Jehovah, all the earth; Show forth his salvation from day to day.
Chronicles 16:24	Declare his glory among the nations, His marvellous works among all the peoples.
Chronicles 16:25	For great is Jehovah, and greatly to be praised: He also is to be feared above all gods.
Chronicles 16:26	For all the gods of the peoples are idols: But Jehovah made the heavens.
Chronicles 16:27	Honor and majesty are before him: Strength and gladness are in his place.
Chronicles 16:28	Ascribe unto Jehovah, ye kindreds of the peoples, Ascribe unto Jehovah glory and strength;
Chronicles 16:29	Ascribe unto Jehovah the glory due unto his name: Bring an offering, and come before him: Worship Jehovah in holy array.
Chronicles 16:30	Tremble before him, all the earth: The world also is established that it cannot be moved.
Chronicles 16:31	Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; And let them say among the nations, Jehovah reigneth.
Chronicles 16:32	Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; Let the field exult, and all that is therein;
Chronicles 16:33	Then shall the trees of the wood sing for joy before Jehovah; For he cometh to judge the earth.
Chronicles 16:34	O give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness endureth for ever.
Chronicles 16:35	And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, And gather us together and deliver us from the nations, To give thanks unto thy holy name, And to triumph in thy praise.
Chronicles 16:36	Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, From everlasting even to everlasting. And all the people said, Amen, and praised Jehovah.
Chronicles 16:37	So he left there, before the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, Asaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, as every day's work required;
Chronicles 16:38	and Obed-edom with their brethren, threescore and eight; Obed-edom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be doorkeepers;
Chronicles 16:39	and Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the tabernacle of Jehovah in the high place that was at Gibeon,
Chronicles 16:40	to offer burnt-offerings unto Jehovah upon the altar of burnt-offering continually morning and evening, even according to all that is written in the law of Jehovah, which he commanded unto Israel;
Chronicles 16:41	and with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest that were chosen, who were mentioned by name, to give thanks to Jehovah, because his lovingkindness endureth for ever;
Chronicles 16:42	and with them Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should sound aloud, and with instruments for the songs of God; and the sons of Jeduthun to be at the gate.
Chronicles 16:43	And all the people departed every man to his house: and David returned to bless his house.
Chronicles 17:1	And it came to pass, when David dwelt in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of Jehovah dwelleth under curtains.
Chronicles 17:2	And Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thy heart; for God is with thee.
Chronicles 17:3	And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying,
Chronicles 17:4	Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith Jehovah, Thou shalt not build me a house to dwell in:
Chronicles 17:5	for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up Israel, unto this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle to another .
Chronicles 17:6	In all places wherein I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people, saying, Why have ye not built me a house of cedar?
Chronicles 17:7	Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be prince over my people Israel:
Chronicles 17:8	and I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast gone, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will make thee a name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the earth.
Chronicles 17:9	And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the first,
Chronicles 17:10	and as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will subdue all thine enemies. Moreover I tell thee that Jehovah will build thee a house.
Chronicles 17:11	And it shall come to pass, when thy days are fulfilled that thou must go to be with thy fathers, that I will set up thy seed after thee, who shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom.
Chronicles 17:12	He shall build me a house, and I will establish his throne for ever.
Chronicles 17:13	I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not take my lovingkindness away from him, as I took it from him that was before thee;
Chronicles 17:14	but I will settle him in my house and in my kingdom for ever; and his throne shall be established for ever.
Chronicles 17:15	According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.
Chronicles 17:16	Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Jehovah God, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far?
Chronicles 17:17	And this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God; but thou hast spoken of thy servant's house for a great while to come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O Jehovah God.
Chronicles 17:18	What can David'say yet more unto thee concerning the honor which is done to thy servant? for thou knowest thy servant.
Chronicles 17:19	O Jehovah, for thy servant's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou wrought all this greatness, to make known all these great things.
Chronicles 17:20	O Jehovah, there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
Chronicles 17:21	And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whom God went to redeem unto himself for a people, to make thee a name by great and terrible things, in driving out nations from before thy people, whom thou redeemest out of Egypt?
Chronicles 17:22	For thy people Israel didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, Jehovah, becamest their God.
Chronicles 17:23	And now, O Jehovah, let the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, be established for ever, and do as thou hast spoken.
Chronicles 17:24	And let thy name be established and magnified for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel: and the house of David thy servant is established before thee.
Chronicles 17:25	For thou, O my God, hast revealed to thy servant that thou wilt build him a house: therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray before thee.
Chronicles 17:26	And now, O Jehovah, thou art God, and hast promised this good thing unto thy servant:
Chronicles 17:27	and now it hath pleased thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee: for thou, O Jehovah, hast blessed, and it is blessed for ever.
Chronicles 18:1	And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines.
Chronicles 18:2	And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.
Chronicles 18:3	And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates.
Chronicles 18:4	And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots.
Chronicles 18:5	And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadarezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.
Chronicles 18:6	Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.
Chronicles 18:7	And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 18:8	And from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadarezer, David took very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.
Chronicles 18:9	And when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah,
Chronicles 18:10	he sent Hadoram his son to king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had wars with Tou;) and he had with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass.
Chronicles 18:11	These also did king David dedicate unto Jehovah, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.
Chronicles 18:12	Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah smote of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt eighteen thousand.
Chronicles 18:13	And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.
Chronicles 18:14	And David reigned over all Israel; and he executed justice and righteousness unto all his people.
Chronicles 18:15	And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
Chronicles 18:16	and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe;
Chronicles 18:17	and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief about the king.
Chronicles 19:1	And it came to pass after this, that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 19:2	And David said, I will show kindness unto Hanun the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me. So David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. And David's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort him.
Chronicles 19:3	But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father, in that he hath sent comforters unto thee? are not his servants come unto thee to search, and to overthrow, and to spy out the land?
Chronicles 19:4	So Hanun took David's servants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the middle, even to their buttocks, and sent them away.
Chronicles 19:5	Then there went certain persons, and told David how the men were served. And he sent to meet them; for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then return.
Chronicles 19:6	And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of Mesopotamia, and out of Arammaacah, and out of Zobah.
Chronicles 19:7	So they hired them thirty and two thousand chariots, and the king of Maacah and his people, who came and encamped before Medeba. And the children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and came to battle.
Chronicles 19:8	And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the mighty men.
Chronicles 19:9	And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array at the gate of the city: and the kings that were come were by themselves in the field.
Chronicles 19:10	Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians.
Chronicles 19:11	And the rest of the people he committed into the hand of Abishai his brother; and they put themselves in array against the children of Ammon.
Chronicles 19:12	And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou shalt help me; but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, then I will help thee.
Chronicles 19:13	Be of good courage, and let us play the man for our people, and for the cities of our God: and Jehovah do that which seemeth him good.
Chronicles 19:14	So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh before the Syrians unto the battle; and they fled before him.
Chronicles 19:15	And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled, they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 19:16	And when the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they sent messengers, and drew forth the Syrians that were beyond the River, with Shophach the captain of the host of Hadarezer at their head.
Chronicles 19:17	And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel together, and passed over the Jordan, and came upon them, and set the battle in array against them. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him.
Chronicles 19:18	And the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew of the Syrians the men of'seven thousand chariots, and forty thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host.
Chronicles 19:19	And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they made peace with David, and served him: neither would the Syrians help the children of Ammon any more.
Chronicles 20:1	And it came to pass, at the time of the return of the year, at the time when kings go out to battle , that Joab led forth the army, and wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. And Joab smote Rabbah, and overthrew it.
Chronicles 20:2	And David took the crown of their king from off his head, and found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precious stones in it; and it was set upon David's head: and he brought forth the spoil of the city, exceeding much.
Chronicles 20:3	And he brought forth the people that were therein, and cut them with saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. And thus did David unto all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 20:4	And it came to pass after this, that there arose war at Gezer with the Philistines: then Sibbecai the Hushathite slew Sippai, of the sons of the giant; and they were subdued.
Chronicles 20:5	And there was again war with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.
Chronicles 20:6	And there was again war at Gath, where was a man of great stature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty, six on each hand , and six on each foot ; and he also was born unto the giant.
Chronicles 20:7	And when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea David's brother slew him.
Chronicles 20:8	These were born unto the giant in Gath; and they fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants.
Chronicles 21:1	And Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to number Israel.
Chronicles 21:2	And David said to Joab and to the princes of the people, Go, number Israel from Beer-sheba even to Dan; and bring me word, that I may know the sum of them.
Chronicles 21:3	And Joab said, Jehovah make his people a hundred times as many as they are: but, my lord the king, are they not all my lord's servants? why doth my lord require this thing? why will he be a cause of guilt unto Israel?
Chronicles 21:4	Nevertheless the king's word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 21:5	And Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the people unto David. And all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and a hundred thousand men that drew sword: and Judah was four hundred threescore and ten thousand men that drew sword.
Chronicles 21:6	But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them; for the king's word was abominable to Joab.
Chronicles 21:7	And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote Israel.
Chronicles 21:8	And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, in that I have done this thing: but now, put away, I beseech thee, the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly.
Chronicles 21:9	And Jehovah spake unto Gad, David's seer, saying,
Chronicles 21:10	Go and speak unto David, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, I offer thee three things: choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee.
Chronicles 21:11	So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Take which thou wilt:
Chronicles 21:12	either three years of famine; or three months to be consumed before thy foes, while the sword of thine enemies overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of Jehovah, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of Jehovah destroying throughout all the borders of Israel. Now therefore consider what answer I shall return to him that sent me.
Chronicles 21:13	And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall, I pray, into the hand of Jehovah; for very great are his mercies: and let me not fall into the hand of man.
Chronicles 21:14	So Jehovah sent a pestilence upon Israel; and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men.
Chronicles 21:15	And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he was about to destroy, Jehovah beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now stay thy hand. And the angel of Jehovah was standing by the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
Chronicles 21:16	And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of Jehovah standing between earth and heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.
Chronicles 21:17	And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done very wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? let thy hand, I pray thee, O Jehovah my God, be against me, and against my father's house; but not against thy people, that they should be plagued.
Chronicles 21:18	Then the angel of Jehovah commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up, and rear an altar unto Jehovah in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
Chronicles 21:19	And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of Jehovah.
Chronicles 21:20	And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons that were with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.
Chronicles 21:21	And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshing-floor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground.
Chronicles 21:22	Then David said to Ornan, Give me the place of this threshing-floor, that I may build thereon an altar unto Jehovah: for the full price shalt thou give it me, that the plague may be stayed from the people.
Chronicles 21:23	And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give thee the oxen for burnt-offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meal-offering; I give it all.
Chronicles 21:24	And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for the full price: for I will not take that which is thine for Jehovah, nor offer a burnt-offering without cost.
Chronicles 21:25	So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight.
Chronicles 21:26	And David built there an altar unto Jehovah, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, and called upon Jehovah; and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt-offering.
Chronicles 21:27	And Jehovah commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again into the sheath thereof.
Chronicles 21:28	At that time, when David saw that Jehovah had answered him in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.
Chronicles 21:29	For the tabernacle of Jehovah, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt-offering, were at that time in the high place at Gibeon.
Chronicles 21:30	But David could not go before it to inquire of God; for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of Jehovah.
Chronicles 22:1	Then David said, This is the house of Jehovah God, and this is the altar of burnt-offering for Israel.
Chronicles 22:2	And David commanded to gather together the sojourners that were in the land of Israel; and he set masons to hew wrought stones to build the house of God.
Chronicles 22:3	And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates, and for the couplings; and brass in abundance without weight;
Chronicles 22:4	and cedar-trees without number: for the Sidonians and they of Tyre brought cedar-trees in abundance to David.
Chronicles 22:5	And David said, Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house that is to be builded for Jehovah must be exceeding magnificent, of fame and of glory throughout all countries: I will therefore make preparation for it. So David prepared abundantly before his death.
Chronicles 22:6	Then he called for Solomon his son, and charged him to build a house for Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Chronicles 22:7	And David said to Solomon his son, As for me, it was in my heart to build a house unto the name of Jehovah my God.
Chronicles 22:8	But the word of Jehovah came to me, saying, Thou hast shed blood abundantly, and hast made great wars: thou shalt not build a house unto my name, because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight.
Chronicles 22:9	Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of rest; and I will give him rest from all his enemies round about; for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness unto Israel in his days:
Chronicles 22:10	he shall build a house for my name; and he shall be my son, and I will be his father; and I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel for ever.
Chronicles 22:11	Now, my son, Jehovah be with thee; and prosper thou, and build the house of Jehovah thy God, as he hath spoken concerning thee.
Chronicles 22:12	Only Jehovah give thee discretion and understanding, and give thee charge concerning Israel; that so thou mayest keep the law of Jehovah thy God.
Chronicles 22:13	Then shalt thou prosper, if thou observe to do the statutes and the ordinances which Jehovah charged Moses with concerning Israel: be strong, and of good courage; fear not, neither be dismayed.
Chronicles 22:14	Now, behold, in my affliction I have prepared for the house of Jehovah a hundred thousand talents of gold, and a thousand thousand talents of silver, and of brass and iron without weight; for it is in abundance: timber also and stone have I prepared; and thou mayest add thereto.
Chronicles 22:15	Moreover there are workmen with thee in abundance, hewers and workers of stone and timber, and all men that are skilful in every manner of work:
Chronicles 22:16	of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, there is no number. Arise and be doing, and Jehovah be with thee.
Chronicles 22:17	David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomon his son,'saying ,
Chronicles 22:18	Is not Jehovah your God with you? and hath he not given you rest on every side? for he hath delivered the inhabitants of the land into my hand; and the land is subdued before Jehovah, and before his people.
Chronicles 22:19	Now set your heart and your soul to seek after Jehovah your God; arise therefore, and build ye the sanctuary of Jehovah God, to bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and the holy vessels of God, into the house that is to be built to the name of Jehovah.
Chronicles 23:1	Now David was old and full of days; and he made Solomon his son king over Israel.
Chronicles 23:2	And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, with the priests and the Levites.
Chronicles 23:3	And the Levites were numbered from thirty years old and upward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty and eight thousand.
Chronicles 23:4	Of these, twenty and four thousand were to oversee the work of the house of Jehovah; and six thousand were officers and judges;
Chronicles 23:5	and four thousand were doorkeepers; and four thousand praised Jehovah with the instruments which I made,'said David , to praise therewith.
Chronicles 23:6	And David divided them into courses according to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
Chronicles 23:7	Of the Gershonites: Ladan and Shimei.
Chronicles 23:8	The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, and Zetham, and Joel, three.
Chronicles 23:9	The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, and Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers  houses of Ladan.
Chronicles 23:10	And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei.
Chronicles 23:11	And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush and Beriah had not many sons; therefore they became a fathers house in one reckoning.
Chronicles 23:12	The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.
Chronicles 23:13	The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and Aaron was separated, that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons, for ever, to burn incense before Jehovah, to minister unto him, and to bless in his name, for ever.
Chronicles 23:14	But as for Moses the man of God, his sons were named among the tribe of Levi.
Chronicles 23:15	The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.
Chronicles 23:16	The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief.
Chronicles 23:17	And the sons of Eliezer were: Rehabiah the chief; and Eliezer had no other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.
Chronicles 23:18	The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief.
Chronicles 23:19	The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.
Chronicles 23:20	The sons of Uzziel: Micah the chief, and Isshiah the second.
Chronicles 23:21	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.
Chronicles 23:22	And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters only: and their brethren the sons of Kish took them to wife .
Chronicles 23:23	The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.
Chronicles 23:24	These were the sons of Levi after their fathers houses, even the heads of the fathers  houses of those of them that were counted, in the number of names by their polls, who did the work for the service of the house of Jehovah, from twenty years old and upward.
Chronicles 23:25	For David said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath given rest unto his people; and he dwelleth in Jerusalem for ever:
Chronicles 23:26	and also the Levites shall no more have need to carry the tabernacle and all the vessels of it for the service thereof.
Chronicles 23:27	For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were numbered, from twenty years old and upward.
Chronicles 23:28	For their office was to wait on the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of Jehovah, in the courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things, even the work of the service of the house of God;
Chronicles 23:29	for the showbread also, and for the fine flour for a meal-offering, whether of unleavened wafers, or of that which is baked in the pan, or of that which is soaked, and for all manner of measure and size;
Chronicles 23:30	and to stand every morning to thank and praise Jehovah, and likewise at even;
Chronicles 23:31	and to offer all burnt-offerings unto Jehovah, on the sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the set feasts, in number according to the ordinance concerning them, continually before Jehovah;
Chronicles 23:32	and that they should keep the charge of the tent of meeting, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of the sons of Aaron their brethren, for the service of the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 24:1	And the courses of the sons of Aaron were these . The sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
Chronicles 24:2	But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's office.
Chronicles 24:3	And David with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their ordering in their service.
Chronicles 24:4	And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar; and thus were they divided: of the sons of Eleazar there were sixteen, heads of fathers houses; and of the sons of Ithamar, according to their fathers houses, eight.
Chronicles 24:5	Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for there were princes of the sanctuary, and princes of God, both of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.
Chronicles 24:6	And Shemaiah the son of Nethanel the scribe, who was of the Levites, wrote them in the presence of the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers  houses of the priests and of the Levites; one fathers house being taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.
Chronicles 24:7	Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
Chronicles 24:8	the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
Chronicles 24:9	the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
Chronicles 24:10	the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
Chronicles 24:11	the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
Chronicles 24:12	the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
Chronicles 24:13	the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
Chronicles 24:14	the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
Chronicles 24:15	the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,
Chronicles 24:16	the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,
Chronicles 24:17	the one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and twentieth to Gamul,
Chronicles 24:18	the three and twentieth to Delaiah, the four and twentieth to Maaziah.
Chronicles 24:19	This was the ordering of them in their service, to come into the house of Jehovah according to the ordinance given unto them by Aaron their father, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, had commanded him.
Chronicles 24:20	And of the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.
Chronicles 24:21	Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the chief.
Chronicles 24:22	Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath.
Chronicles 24:23	And the sons of Hebron : Jeriah the chief , Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
Chronicles 24:24	The sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir.
Chronicles 24:25	The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.
Chronicles 24:26	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah: Beno.
Chronicles 24:27	The sons of Merari: of Jaaziah, Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.
Chronicles 24:28	Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons.
Chronicles 24:29	Of Kish; the sons of Kish: Jerahmeel.
Chronicles 24:30	And the sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after their fathers houses.
Chronicles 24:31	These likewise cast lots even as their brethren the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers  houses of the priests and of the Levites; the fathers  houses of the chief even as those of his younger brother.
Chronicles 25:1	Moreover David and the captains of the host set apart for the service certain of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals: and the number of them that did the work according to their service was:
Chronicles 25:2	of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah, the sons of Asaph, under the hand of Asaph, who prophesied after the order of the king.
Chronicles 25:3	Of Jeduthun; the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun with the harp, who prophesied in giving thanks and praising Jehovah.
Chronicles 25:4	Of Heman; the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
Chronicles 25:5	All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God, to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
Chronicles 25:6	All these were under the hands of their father for song in the house of Jehovah, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the service of the house of God; Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman being under the order of the king.
Chronicles 25:7	And the number of them, with their brethren that were instructed in singing unto Jehovah, even all that were skilful, was two hundred fourscore and eight.
Chronicles 25:8	And they cast lots for their offices, all alike, as well the small as the great, the teacher as the scholar.
Chronicles 25:9	Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second to Gedaliah; he and his brethren and sons were twelve:
Chronicles 25:10	the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:11	the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:12	the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:13	the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:14	the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:15	the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:16	the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:17	the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:18	the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:19	the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:20	for the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:21	for the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:22	for the fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:23	for the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:24	for the seventeenth to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:25	for the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:26	for the nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:27	for the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:28	for the one and twentieth to Hothir, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:29	for the two and twentieth to Giddalti, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:30	for the three and twentieth to Mahazioth, his sons and his brethren, twelve:
Chronicles 25:31	for the four and twentieth to Romamtiezer, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
Chronicles 26:1	For the courses of the doorkeepers: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
Chronicles 26:2	And Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
Chronicles 26:3	Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.
Chronicles 26:4	And Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethanel the fifth,
Chronicles 26:5	Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth; for God blessed him.
Chronicles 26:6	Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled over the house of their father; for they were mighty men of valor.
Chronicles 26:7	The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brethren were valiant men, Elihu, and Semachiah.
Chronicles 26:8	All these were of the sons of Obed-edom: they and their sons and their brethren, able men in strength for the service; threescore and two of Obed-edom.
Chronicles 26:9	And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, valiant men, eighteen.
Chronicles 26:10	Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons: Shimri the chief, (for though he was not the first-born, yet his father made him chief),
Chronicles 26:11	Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.
Chronicles 26:12	Of these were the courses of the doorkeepers, even of the chief men, having offices like their brethren, to minister in the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 26:13	And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to their fathers houses, for every gate.
Chronicles 26:14	And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his son, a discreet counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came out northward.
Chronicles 26:15	To Obed-edom southward; and to his sons the store-house.
Chronicles 26:16	To Shuppim and Hosah westward, by the gate of Shallecheth, at the causeway that goeth up, watch against watch.
Chronicles 26:17	Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and for the store-house two and two.
Chronicles 26:18	For Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar.
Chronicles 26:19	These were the courses of the doorkeepers; of the sons of the Korahites, and of the sons of Merari.
Chronicles 26:20	And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things.
Chronicles 26:21	The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers  houses belonging to Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli.
Chronicles 26:22	The sons of Jehieli: Zetham, and Joel his brother, over the treasures of the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 26:23	Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites, of the Uzzielites:
Chronicles 26:24	and Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler over the treasures.
Chronicles 26:25	And his brethren: of Eliezer came Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomoth his son.
Chronicles 26:26	This Shelomoth and his brethren were over all the treasures of the dedicated things, which David the king, and the heads of the fathers  houses , the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host, had dedicated.
Chronicles 26:27	Out of the spoil won in battles did they dedicate to repair the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 26:28	And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated, whosoever had dedicated anything, it was under the hand of Shelomoth, and of his brethren.
Chronicles 26:29	Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges.
Chronicles 26:30	Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of valor, a thousand and seven hundred, had the oversight of Israel beyond the Jordan westward, for all the business of Jehovah, and for the service of the king.
Chronicles 26:31	Of the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even of the Hebronites, according to their generations by fathers  houses . In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valor at Jazer of Gilead.
Chronicles 26:32	And his brethren, men of valor, were two thousand and seven hundred, heads of fathers  houses , whom king David made overseers over the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manassites, for every matter pertaining to God, and for the affairs of the king.
Chronicles 27:1	Now the children of Israel after their number, to wit , the heads of fathers  houses and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers that served the king, in any matter of the courses which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year-of every course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:2	Over the first course for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:3	He was of the children of Perez, the chief of all the captains of the host for the first month.
Chronicles 27:4	And over the course of the second month was Dodai the Ahohite, and his course; and Mikloth the ruler: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:5	The third captain of the host for the third month was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, chief: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:6	This is that Benaiah, who was the mighty man of the thirty, and over the thirty: and of his course was Ammizabad his son.
Chronicles 27:7	The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:8	The fifth captain for this fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:9	The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:10	The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:11	The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:12	The ninth captain for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anathothite, of the Benjamites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:13	The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:14	The eleventh captain for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:15	The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
Chronicles 27:16	Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: of the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri the ruler: of the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah:
Chronicles 27:17	of Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel: of Aaron, Zadok:
Chronicles 27:18	of Judah, Elihu, one of the brethren of David: of Issachar, Omri the son of Michael:
Chronicles 27:19	of Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel:
Chronicles 27:20	of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah: of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah:
Chronicles 27:21	of the half - tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah: of Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner:
Chronicles 27:22	of Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the captains of the tribes of Israel.
Chronicles 27:23	But David took not the number of them from twenty years old and under, because Jehovah had said he would increase Israel like to the stars of heaven.
Chronicles 27:24	Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but finished not; and there came wrath for this upon Israel; neither was the number put into the account in the chronicles of king David.
Chronicles 27:25	And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and over the treasures in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the castles, was Jonathan the son of Uzziah:
Chronicles 27:26	And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub:
Chronicles 27:27	and over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite: and over the increase of the vineyards for the wine-cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite:
Chronicles 27:28	and over the olive-trees and the sycomore-trees that were in the lowland was Baal-hanan the Gederite: and over the cellars of oil was Joash:
Chronicles 27:29	and over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai:
Chronicles 27:30	and over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses was Jehdeiah the Meronothite: and over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagrite.
Chronicles 27:31	All these were the rulers of the substance which was king David's.
Chronicles 27:32	Also Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counsellor, a man of understanding, and a scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons:
Chronicles 27:33	And Ahithophel was the king's counsellor: and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend:
Chronicles 27:34	and after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the captain of the king's host was Joab.
Chronicles 28:1	And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes, and the captains of the companies that served the king by course, and the captains of thousands, and the captains of hundreds, and the rulers over all the substance and possessions of the king and of his sons, with the officers, and the mighty men, even all the mighty men of valor, unto Jerusalem.
Chronicles 28:2	Then David the king stood up upon his feet, and said, Hear me, my brethren, and my people: as for me, it was in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and for the footstool of our God; and I had made ready for the building.
Chronicles 28:3	But God said unto me, Thou shalt not build a house for my name, because thou art a man of war, and hast shed blood.
Chronicles 28:4	Howbeit Jehovah, the God of Israel, chose me out of all the house of my father to be king over Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah to be prince; and in the house of Judah, the house of my father; and among the sons of my father he took pleasure in me to make me king over all Israel;
Chronicles 28:5	And of all my sons (for Jehovah hath given me many sons), he hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of Jehovah over Israel.
Chronicles 28:6	And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house and my courts; for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father.
Chronicles 28:7	And I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be constant to do my commandments and mine ordinances, as at this day.
Chronicles 28:8	Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of Jehovah, and in the audience of our God, observe and seek out all the commandments of Jehovah your God; that ye may possess this good land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children after you for ever.
Chronicles 28:9	And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind; for Jehovah searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts: if thou seek him, he will be found of thee; but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.
Chronicles 28:10	Take heed now; for Jehovah hath chosen thee to build a house for the sanctuary: be strong, and do it.
Chronicles 28:11	Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch of the temple , and of the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upper rooms thereof, and of the inner chambers thereof, and of the place of the mercy-seat;
Chronicles 28:12	and the pattern of all that he had by the Spirit, for the courts of the house of Jehovah, and for all the chambers round about, for the treasuries of the house of God, and for the treasuries of the dedicated things;
Chronicles 28:13	also for the courses of the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of the house of Jehovah, and for all the vessels of service in the house of Jehovah;
Chronicles 28:14	of gold by weight for the vessels of gold, for all vessels of every kind of service; of silver for all the vessels of silver by weight, for all vessels of every kind of service;
Chronicles 28:15	by weight also for the candlesticks of gold, and for the lamps thereof, of gold, by weight for every candlestick and for the lamps thereof; and for the candlesticks of silver,'silver by weight for every candlestick and for the lamps thereof, according to the use of every candlestick;
Chronicles 28:16	and the gold by weight for the tables of showbread, for every table; and silver for the tables of silver;
Chronicles 28:17	and the flesh-hooks, and the basins, and the cups, of pure gold; and for the golden bowls by weight for every bowl; and for the silver bowls by weight for every bowl;
Chronicles 28:18	and for the altar of incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of the chariot, even the cherubim, that spread out their wings , and covered the ark of the covenant of Jehovah.
Chronicles 28:19	All this,'said David , have I been made to understand in writing from the hand of Jehovah, even all the works of this pattern.
Chronicles 28:20	And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of good courage, and do it: fear not, nor be dismayed; for Jehovah God, even my God, is with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee, until all the work for the service of the house of Jehovah be finished.
Chronicles 28:21	And, behold, there are the courses of the priests and the Levites, for all the service of the house of God: and there shall be with thee in all manner of work every willing man that hath skill, for any manner of service: also the captains and all the people will be wholly at thy commandment.
Chronicles 29:1	And David the king said unto all the assembly, Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and tender, and the work is great; for the palace is not for man, but for Jehovah God.
Chronicles 29:2	Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for the things of gold, and the silver for the things of'silver, and the brass for the things of brass, the iron for the things of iron, and wood for the things of wood; onyx stones, and'stones to be set, stones for inlaid work, and of divers colors, and all manner of precious stones, and marble stones in abundance.
Chronicles 29:3	Moreover also, because I have set my affection on the house of my God, seeing that I have a treasure of mine own of gold and silver, I give it unto the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house,
Chronicles 29:4	even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, wherewith to overlay the walls of the houses;
Chronicles 29:5	of gold for the things of gold, and of silver for the things of'silver, and for all manner of work to be made by the hands of artificers. Who then offereth willingly to consecrate himself this day unto Jehovah?
Chronicles 29:6	Then the princes of the fathers  houses , and the princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers over the king's work, offered willingly;
Chronicles 29:7	and they gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand darics, and of silver ten thousand talents, and of brass eighteen thousand talents, and of iron a hundred thousand talents.
Chronicles 29:8	And they with whom precious'stones were found gave them to the treasure of the house of Jehovah, under the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.
Chronicles 29:9	Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly, because with a perfect heart they offered willingly to Jehovah: and David the king also rejoiced with great joy.
Chronicles 29:10	Wherefore David blessed Jehovah before all the assembly; and David said, Blessed be thou, O Jehovah, the God of Israel our father, for ever and ever.
Chronicles 29:11	Thine, O Jehovah, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heavens and in the earth is thine ; thine is the kingdom, O Jehovah, and thou art exalted as head above all.
Chronicles 29:12	Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou rulest over all; and in thy hand is power and might; and in thy hand it is to make great, and to give strength unto all.
Chronicles 29:13	Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious name.
Chronicles 29:14	But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee.
Chronicles 29:15	For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, as all our fathers were: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is no abiding.
Chronicles 29:16	O Jehovah our God, all this store that we have prepared to build thee a house for thy holy name cometh of thy hand, and is all thine own.
Chronicles 29:17	I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen with joy thy people, that are present here, offer willingly unto thee.
Chronicles 29:18	O Jehovah, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep this for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their heart unto thee;
Chronicles 29:19	and give unto Solomon my son a perfect heart, to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, for which I have made provision.
Chronicles 29:20	And David said to all the assembly, Now bless Jehovah your God. And all the assembly blessed Jehovah, the God of their fathers, and bowed down their heads, and worshipped Jehovah, and the king.
Chronicles 29:21	And they sacrificed sacrifices unto Jehovah, and offered burnt-offerings unto Jehovah, on the morrow after that day, even a thousand bullocks, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their drink-offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel,
Chronicles 29:22	and did eat and drink before Jehovah on that day with great gladness. And they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointed him unto Jehovah to be prince, and Zadok to be priest.
Chronicles 29:23	Then Solomon sat on the throne of Jehovah as king instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.
Chronicles 29:24	And all the princes, and the mighty men, and all the sons likewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solomon the king.
Chronicles 29:25	And Jehovah magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.
Chronicles 29:26	Now David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.
Chronicles 29:27	And the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 29:28	And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor: and Solomon his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 29:29	Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the history of Samuel the seer, and in the history of Nathan the prophet, and in the history of Gad the seer,
Chronicles 29:30	with all his reign and his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries.
Corinthians 1:1	Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother,
Corinthians 1:2	unto the church of God which is at Corinth, even them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be'saints, with all that call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, their Lord and ours:
Corinthians 1:3	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Corinthians 1:4	I thank my God always concerning you, for the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus;
Corinthians 1:5	that in everything ye were enriched in him, in all utterance and all knowledge;
Corinthians 1:6	even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you:
Corinthians 1:7	so that ye come behind in no gift; waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ;
Corinthians 1:8	who shall also confirm you unto the end, that ye be unreproveable in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Corinthians 1:9	God is faithful, through whom ye were called into the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.
Corinthians 1:10	Now I beseech you, brethren, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfected together in the same mind and in the same judgment.
Corinthians 1:11	For it hath been signified unto me concerning you, my brethren, by them that are of the household of Chloe, that there are contentions among you.
Corinthians 1:12	Now this I mean, that each one of you saith, I am of Paul; and I of Apollos: and I of Cephas; and I of Christ.
Corinthians 1:13	Is Christ divided? was Paul crucified for you? or were ye baptized into the name of Paul?
Corinthians 1:14	I thank God that I baptized none of you, save Crispus and Gaius;
Corinthians 1:15	lest any man should say that ye were baptized into my name.
Corinthians 1:16	And I baptized also the household of Stephanas: besides, I know not whether I baptized any other.
Corinthians 1:17	For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel: not in wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made void.
Corinthians 1:18	For the word of the cross is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us who are saved it is the power of God.
Corinthians 1:19	For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, And the discernment of the discerning will I bring to nought.
Corinthians 1:20	Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of this world? hath not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?
Corinthians 1:21	For seeing that in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom knew not God, it was God's good pleasure through the foolishness of the preaching to save them that believe.
Corinthians 1:22	Seeing that Jews ask for signs, and Greeks seek after wisdom:
Corinthians 1:23	but we preach Christ crucified, unto Jews a stumblingblock, and unto Gentiles foolishness;
Corinthians 1:24	but unto them that are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God.
Corinthians 1:25	Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
Corinthians 1:26	For behold your calling, brethren, that not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called :
Corinthians 1:27	but God chose the foolish things of the world, that he might put to shame them that are wise; and God chose the weak things of the world, that he might put to shame the things that are strong;
Corinthians 1:28	and the base things of the world, and the things that are despised, did God choose, yea and the things that are not, that he might bring to nought the things that are:
Corinthians 1:29	that no flesh should glory before God.
Corinthians 1:30	But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who was made unto us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption:
Corinthians 1:31	that, according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.
Corinthians 2:1	And I, brethren, when I came unto you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God.
Corinthians 2:2	For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified.
Corinthians 2:3	And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling.
Corinthians 2:4	And my speech and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power:
Corinthians 2:5	that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
Corinthians 2:6	We speak wisdom, however, among them that are fullgrown: yet a wisdom not of this world, nor of the rulers of this world, who are coming to nought:
Corinthians 2:7	but we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, even the wisdom that hath been hidden, which God foreordained before the worlds unto our glory:
Corinthians 2:8	which none of the rulers of this world hath known: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory:
Corinthians 2:9	but as it is written, Things which eye saw not, and ear heard not, And which entered not into the heart of man, Whatsoever things God prepared for them that love him.
Corinthians 2:10	But unto us God revealed them through the Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.
Corinthians 2:11	For who among men knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of the man, which is in him? even so the things of God none knoweth, save the Spirit of God.
Corinthians 2:12	But we received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is from God; that we might know the things that were freely given to us of God.
Corinthians 2:13	Which things also we speak, not in words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Spirit teacheth; combining spiritual things with spiritual words .
Corinthians 2:14	Now the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him; and he cannot know them, because they are spiritually judged.
Corinthians 2:15	But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, and he himself is judged of no man.
Corinthians 2:16	For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he should instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.
Corinthians 3:1	And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, as unto babes in Christ.
Corinthians 3:2	I fed you with milk, not with meat; for ye were not yet able to bear it : nay, not even now are ye able;
Corinthians 3:3	for ye are yet carnal: for whereas there is among you jealousy and strife, are ye not carnal, and do ye not walk after the manner of men?
Corinthians 3:4	For when one saith, I am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are ye not men?
Corinthians 3:5	What then is Apollos? and what is Paul? Ministers through whom ye believed; and each as the Lord gave to him.
Corinthians 3:6	I planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the increase.
Corinthians 3:7	So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth; but God that giveth the increase.
Corinthians 3:8	Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one: but each shall receive his own reward according to his own labor.
Corinthians 3:9	For we are God's fellow-workers: ye are God's husbandry, God's building.
Corinthians 3:10	According to the grace of God which was given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder I laid a foundation; and another buildeth thereon. But let each man take heed how he buildeth thereon.
Corinthians 3:11	For other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
Corinthians 3:12	But if any man buildeth on the foundation gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, stubble;
Corinthians 3:13	each man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it is revealed in fire; and the fire itself shall prove each man's work of what sort it is.
Corinthians 3:14	If any man's work shall abide which he built thereon, he shall receive a reward.
Corinthians 3:15	If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as through fire.
Corinthians 3:16	Know ye not that ye are a temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?
Corinthians 3:17	If any man destroyeth the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, and such are ye.
Corinthians 3:18	Let no man deceive himself. If any man thinketh that he is wise among you in this world, let him become a fool, that he may become wise.
Corinthians 3:19	For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He that taketh the wise in their craftiness:
Corinthians 3:20	and again, The Lord knoweth the reasonings of the wise that they are vain.
Corinthians 3:21	Wherefore let no one glory in men. For all things are yours;
Corinthians 3:22	whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are yours;
Corinthians 3:23	and ye are Christ's; and Christ is God's.
Corinthians 4:1	Let a man so account of us, as of ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Corinthians 4:2	Here, moreover, it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.
Corinthians 4:3	But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment: yea, I judge not mine own self.
Corinthians 4:4	For I know nothing against myself; yet am I not hereby justified: but he that judgeth me is the Lord.
Corinthians 4:5	Wherefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and make manifest the counsels of the hearts; and then shall each man have his praise from God.
Corinthians 4:6	Now these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and Apollos for your sakes; that in us ye might learn not to go beyond the things which are written; that no one of you be puffed up for the one against the other.
Corinthians 4:7	For who maketh thee to differ? and what hast thou that thou didst not receive? but if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou hadst not received it?
Corinthians 4:8	Already are ye filled, already ye are become rich, ye have come to reign without us: yea and I would that ye did reign, that we also might reign with you.
Corinthians 4:9	For, I think, God hath set forth us the apostles last of all, as men doomed to death: for we are made a spectacle unto the world, both to angels and men.
Corinthians 4:10	We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye are wise in Christ; we are weak, but ye are strong; ye have glory, but we have dishonor.
Corinthians 4:11	Even unto this present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain dwelling-place;
Corinthians 4:12	and we toil, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we endure;
Corinthians 4:13	being defamed, we entreat: we are made as the filth of the world, the offscouring of all things, even until now.
Corinthians 4:14	I write not these things to shame you, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
Corinthians 4:15	For though ye have ten thousand tutors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I begat you through the gospel.
Corinthians 4:16	I beseech you therefore, be ye imitators of me.
Corinthians 4:17	For this cause have I sent unto you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who shall put you in remembrance of my ways which are in Christ, even as I teach everywhere in every church.
Corinthians 4:18	Now some are puffed up, as though I were not coming to you.
Corinthians 4:19	But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will; and I will know, not the word of them that are puffed up, but the power.
Corinthians 4:20	For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.
Corinthians 4:21	What will ye? shall I come unto you with a rod, or in love and a spirit of gentleness?
Corinthians 5:1	It is actually reported that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not even among the Gentiles, that one of you hath his father's wife.
Corinthians 5:2	And ye are puffed up, and did not rather mourn, that he that had done this deed might be taken away from among you.
Corinthians 5:3	For I verily, being absent in body but present in spirit, have already as though I were present judged him that hath so wrought this thing,
Corinthians 5:4	in the name of our Lord Jesus, ye being gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus,
Corinthians 5:5	to deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.
Corinthians 5:6	Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump?
Corinthians 5:7	Purge out the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, even as ye are unleavened. For our passover also hath been sacrificed, even Christ:
Corinthians 5:8	wherefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
Corinthians 5:9	I wrote unto you in my epistle to have no company with fornicators;
Corinthians 5:10	not at all meaning with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous and extortioners, or with idolaters; for then must ye needs go out of the world:
Corinthians 5:11	but as it is, I wrote unto you not to keep company, if any man that is named a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler, or a drunkard, or an extortioner; with such a one no, not to eat.
Corinthians 5:12	For what have I to do with judging them that are without? Do not ye judge them that are within?
Corinthians 5:13	But them that are without God judgeth. Put away the wicked man from among yourselves.
Corinthians 6:1	Dare any of you, having a matter against his neighbor, go to law before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?
Corinthians 6:2	Or know ye not that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world is judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?
Corinthians 6:3	Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more, things that pertain to this life?
Corinthians 6:4	If then ye have to judge things pertaining to this life, do ye set them to judge who are of no account in the church?
Corinthians 6:5	I say this to move you to shame. What, cannot there be found among you one wise man who shall be able to decide between his brethren,
Corinthians 6:6	but brother goeth to law with brother, and that before unbelievers?
Corinthians 6:7	Nay, already it is altogether a defect in you, that ye have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather take wrong? why not rather be defrauded?
Corinthians 6:8	Nay, but ye yourselves do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren.
Corinthians 6:9	Or know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with men,
Corinthians 6:10	nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
Corinthians 6:11	And such were some of you: but ye were washed, but ye were sanctified, but ye were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in the Spirit of our God.
Corinthians 6:12	All things are lawful for me; but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful for me; but I will not be brought under the power of any.
Corinthians 6:13	Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall bring to nought both it and them. But the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body:
Corinthians 6:14	and God both raised the Lord, and will raise up as through his power.
Corinthians 6:15	Know ye not that your bodies are members of Christ? shall I then take away the members of Christ, and make them members of a harlot? God forbid.
Corinthians 6:16	Or know ye not that he that is joined to a harlot is one body? for, The twain, saith he, shall become one flesh.
Corinthians 6:17	But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.
Corinthians 6:18	Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body.
Corinthians 6:19	Or know ye not that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which ye have from God? and ye are not your own;
Corinthians 6:20	for ye were bought with a price: glorify God therefore in your body.
Corinthians 7:1	Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
Corinthians 7:2	But, because of fornications, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband.
Corinthians 7:3	Let the husband render unto the wife her due: and likewise also the wife unto the husband.
Corinthians 7:4	The wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband: and likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife.
Corinthians 7:5	Defraud ye not one the other, except it be by consent for a season, that ye may give yourselves unto prayer, and may be together again, that Satan tempt you not because of your incontinency.
Corinthians 7:6	But this I say by way of concession, not of commandment.
Corinthians 7:7	Yet I would that all men were even as I myself. Howbeit each man hath his own gift from God, one after this manner, and another after that.
Corinthians 7:8	But I say to the unmarried and to widows, It is good for them if they abide even as I.
Corinthians 7:9	But if they have not continency, let them marry: for it is better to marry than to burn.
Corinthians 7:10	But unto the married I give charge, yea not I, but the Lord, That the wife depart not from her husband
Corinthians 7:11	(but should she depart, let her remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband); and that the husband leave not his wife.
Corinthians 7:12	But to the rest say I, not the Lord: If any brother hath an unbelieving wife, and she is content to dwell with him, let him not leave her.
Corinthians 7:13	And the woman that hath an unbelieving husband, and he is content to dwell with her, let her not leave her husband.
Corinthians 7:14	For the unbelieving husband is sanctified in the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified in the brother: else were your children unclean; but now are they holy.
Corinthians 7:15	Yet if the unbelieving departeth, let him depart: the brother or the sister is not under bondage in such cases : but God hath called us in peace.
Corinthians 7:16	For how knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O husband, whether thou shalt save thy wife?
Corinthians 7:17	Only, as the Lord hath distributed to each man, as God hath called each, so let him walk. And so ordain I in all the churches.
Corinthians 7:18	Was any man called being circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. Hath any been called in uncircumcision? Let him not be circumcised.
Corinthians 7:19	Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing; but the keeping of the commandments of God.
Corinthians 7:20	Let each man abide in that calling wherein he was called.
Corinthians 7:21	Wast thou called being a bondservant? Care not for it: nay, even if thou canst become free, use it rather.
Corinthians 7:22	For he that was called in the Lord being a bondservant, is the Lord's freedman: likewise he that was called being free, is Christ's bondservant.
Corinthians 7:23	Ye were bought with a price; become not bondservants of men.
Corinthians 7:24	Brethren, let each man, wherein he was called, therein abide with God.
Corinthians 7:25	Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord: but I give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be trustworthy.
Corinthians 7:26	I think therefore that this is good by reason of the distress that is upon us, namely, that it is good for a man to be as he is.
Corinthians 7:27	Art thou bound unto a wife? Seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? Seek not a wife.
Corinthians 7:28	But shouldest thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned. Yet such shall have tribulation in the flesh: and I would spare you.
Corinthians 7:29	But this I say, brethren, the time is shortened, that henceforth both those that have wives may be as though they had none;
Corinthians 7:30	and those that weep, as though they wept not; and those that rejoice, as though they rejoiced not; and those that buy, as though they possessed not;
Corinthians 7:31	and those that use the world, as not using it to the full: for the fashion of this world passeth away.
Corinthians 7:32	But I would have you to be free from cares. He that is unmarried is careful for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord:
Corinthians 7:33	but he that is married is careful for the things of the world, how he may please his wife,
Corinthians 7:34	and is divided.'so also the woman that is unmarried and the virgin is careful for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit: but she that is married is careful for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
Corinthians 7:35	And this I say for your own profit; not that I may cast a snare upon you, but for that which is seemly, and that ye may attend upon the Lord without distraction.
Corinthians 7:36	But if any man thinketh that he behaveth himself unseemly toward his virgin daughter , if she be past the flower of her age, and if need so requireth, let him do what he will; he sinneth not; let them marry.
Corinthians 7:37	But he that standeth stedfast in his heart, having no necessity, but hath power as touching in his own heart, to keep his own virgin daughter , shall do well.
Corinthians 7:38	So then both he that giveth his own virgin daughter in marriage doeth well; and he that giveth her not in marriage shall do better.
Corinthians 7:39	A wife is bound for so long time as her husband liveth; but if the husband be dead, she is free to be married to whom she will; only in the Lord.
Corinthians 7:40	But she is happier if she abide as she is, after my judgment: and I think that I also have the Spirit of God.
Corinthians 8:1	Now concerning things sacrificed to idols: We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but love edifieth.
Corinthians 8:2	If any man thinketh that he knoweth anything, he knoweth not yet as he ought to know;
Corinthians 8:3	but if any man loveth God, the same is known by him.
Corinthians 8:4	Concerning therefore the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that no idol is anything in the world, and that there is no God but one.
Corinthians 8:5	For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth; as there are gods many, and lords many;
Corinthians 8:6	yet to us there is one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we unto him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we through him.
Corinthians 8:7	Howbeit there is not in all men that knowledge: but some, being used until now to the idol, eat as of a thing sacrificed to an idol; and their conscience being weak is defiled.
Corinthians 8:8	But food will not commend us to God: neither, if we eat not, are we the worse; nor, if we eat, are we the better.
Corinthians 8:9	But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumblingblock to the weak.
Corinthians 8:10	For if a man see thee who hast knowledge sitting at meat in an idol's temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be emboldened to eat things sacrificed to idols?
Corinthians 8:11	For through thy knowledge he that is weak perisheth, the brother for whose sake Christ died.
Corinthians 8:12	And thus, sinning against the brethren, and wounding their conscience when it is weak, ye sin against Christ.
Corinthians 8:13	Wherefore, if meat causeth my brother to stumble, I will eat no flesh for evermore, that I cause not my brother to stumble.
Corinthians 9:1	Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are not ye my work in the Lord?
Corinthians 9:2	If to others I am not an apostle, yet at least I am to you; for the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord.
Corinthians 9:3	My defence to them that examine me is this.
Corinthians 9:4	Have we no right to eat and to drink?
Corinthians 9:5	Have we no right to lead about a wife that is a believer, even as the rest of the apostles, and the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?
Corinthians 9:6	Or I only and Barnabas, have we not a right to forbear working?
Corinthians 9:7	What soldier ever serveth at his own charges? who planteth a vineyard, and eateth not the fruit thereof? Or who feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock?
Corinthians 9:8	Do I speak these things after the manner of men? or saith not the law also the same?
Corinthians 9:9	For it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn. Is it for the oxen that God careth,
Corinthians 9:10	or saith he it assuredly for our sake? Yea, for our sake it was written: because he that ploweth ought to plow in hope, and he that thresheth, to thresh in hope of partaking.
Corinthians 9:11	If we sowed unto you spiritual things, is it a great matter if we shall reap your carnal things?
Corinthians 9:12	If others partake of this right over you, do not we yet more? Nevertheless we did not use this right; but we bear all things, that we may cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ.
Corinthians 9:13	Know ye not that they that minister about sacred things eat of the things of the temple, and they that wait upon the altar have their portion with the altar?
Corinthians 9:14	Even so did the Lord ordain that they that proclaim the gospel should live of the gospel.
Corinthians 9:15	But I have used none of these things: and I write not these things that it may be so done in my case; for it were good for me rather to die, than that any man should make my glorifying void.
Corinthians 9:16	For if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of; for necessity is laid upon me; for woe is unto me, if I preach not the gospel.
Corinthians 9:17	For if I do this of mine own will, I have a reward: but if not of mine own will, I have a stewardship intrusted to me.
Corinthians 9:18	What then is my reward? That, when I preach the gospel, I may make the gospel without charge, so as not to use to the full my right in the gospel.
Corinthians 9:19	For though I was free from all men, I brought myself under bondage to all, that I might gain the more.
Corinthians 9:20	And to the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain Jews; to them that are under the law, as under the law, not being myself under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law;
Corinthians 9:21	to them that are without law, as without law, not being without law to God, but under law to Christ, that I might gain them that are without law.
Corinthians 9:22	To the weak I became weak, that I might gain the weak: I am become all things to all men, that I may by all means save some.
Corinthians 9:23	And I do all things for the gospel's sake, that I may be a joint partaker thereof.
Corinthians 9:24	Know ye not that they that run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? Even so run; that ye may attain.
Corinthians 9:25	And every man that striveth in the games exerciseth self-control in all things. Now they do it to receive a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible.
Corinthians 9:26	I therefore so run, as not uncertainly; so fight I, as not beating the air:
Corinthians 9:27	but I buffet my body, and bring it into bondage: lest by any means, after that I have preached to others, I myself should be rejected.
Corinthians 10:1	For I would not, brethren, have you ignorant, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;
Corinthians 10:2	and were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;
Corinthians 10:3	and did all eat the same spiritual food;
Corinthians 10:4	and did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of a spiritual rock that followed them: and the rock was Christ.
Corinthians 10:5	Howbeit with most of them God was not well pleased: for they were overthrown in the wilderness.
Corinthians 10:6	Now these things were our examples, to the intent we should not lust after evil things, as they also lusted.
Corinthians 10:7	Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them; as it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.
Corinthians 10:8	Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand.
Corinthians 10:9	Neither let us make trial of the Lord, as some of them made trial, and perished by the serpents.
Corinthians 10:10	Neither murmur ye, as some of them murmured, and perished by the destroyer.
Corinthians 10:11	Now these things happened unto them by way of example; and they were written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the ages are come.
Corinthians 10:12	Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall.
Corinthians 10:13	There hath no temptation taken you but such as man can bear: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation make also the way of escape, that ye may be able to endure it.
Corinthians 10:14	Wherefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
Corinthians 10:15	I speak as to wise men; judge ye what I say.
Corinthians 10:16	The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not a communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not a communion of the body of Christ?
Corinthians 10:17	seeing that we, who are many, are one bread, one body: for we are all partake of the one bread.
Corinthians 10:18	Behold Israel after the flesh: have not they that eat the sacrifices communion with the altar?
Corinthians 10:19	What say I then? that a thing sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything?
Corinthians 10:20	But I say , that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God: and I would not that ye should have communion with demons.
Corinthians 10:21	Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons: ye cannot partake of the table of the Lord, and of the table of demons.
Corinthians 10:22	Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? are we stronger than he?
Corinthians 10:23	All things are lawful; but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful; but not all things edify.
Corinthians 10:24	Let no man seek his own, but each his neighbor's good .
Corinthians 10:25	Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, eat, asking no question for conscience'sake,
Corinthians 10:26	for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof.
Corinthians 10:27	If one of them that believe not biddeth you to a feast , and ye are disposed to go; whatsoever is set before you, eat, asking no question for conscience'sake.
Corinthians 10:28	But if any man say unto you, This hath been offered in sacrifice, eat not, for his sake that showed it, and for conscience sake:
Corinthians 10:29	conscience, I say, not thine own, but the other's; for why is my liberty judged by another conscience?
Corinthians 10:30	If I partake with thankfulness, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks?
Corinthians 10:31	Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God.
Corinthians 10:32	Give no occasions of stumbling, either to Jews, or to Greeks, or to the church of God:
Corinthians 10:33	even as I also please all men in all things, not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of the many, that they may be saved.
Corinthians 11:1	Be ye imitators of me, even as I also am of Christ.
Corinthians 11:2	Now I praise you that ye remember me in all things, and hold fast the traditions, even as I delivered them to you.
Corinthians 11:3	But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.
Corinthians 11:4	Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoreth his head.
Corinthians 11:5	But every woman praying or prophesying with her head unveiled dishonoreth her head; for it is one and the same thing as if she were shaven.
Corinthians 11:6	For if a woman is not veiled, let her also be shorn: but if it is a shame to a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be veiled.
Corinthians 11:7	For a man indeed ought not to have his head veiled, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.
Corinthians 11:8	For the man is not of the woman; but the woman of the man:
Corinthians 11:9	for neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man:
Corinthians 11:10	for this cause ought the woman to have a sign of authority on her head, because of the angels.
Corinthians 11:11	Nevertheless, neither is the woman without the man, nor the man without the woman, in the Lord.
Corinthians 11:12	For as the woman is of the man, so is the man also by the woman; but all things are of God.
Corinthians 11:13	Judge ye in yourselves: is it seemly that a woman pray unto God unveiled?
Corinthians 11:14	Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a dishonor to him?
Corinthians 11:15	But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a covering.
Corinthians 11:16	But if any man seemeth to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God.
Corinthians 11:17	But in giving you this charge, I praise you not, that ye come together not for the better but for the worse.
Corinthians 11:18	For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that divisions exist among you; and I partly believe it.
Corinthians 11:19	For there must be also factions among you, that they that are approved may be made manifest among you.
Corinthians 11:20	When therefore ye assemble yourselves together, it is not possible to eat the Lord's supper:
Corinthians 11:21	for in your eating each one taketh before other his own supper; and one is hungry, and another is drunken.
Corinthians 11:22	What, have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or despise ye the church of God, and put them to shame that have not? What shall I say to you? shall I praise you? In this I praise you not.
Corinthians 11:23	For I received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was betrayed took bread;
Corinthians 11:24	and when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, This is my body, which is for you: this do in remembrance of me.
Corinthians 11:25	In like manner also the cup, after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood: this do, as often as ye drink it , in remembrance of me.
Corinthians 11:26	For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink the cup, ye proclaim the Lord's death till he come.
Corinthians 11:27	Wherefore whosoever shall eat the bread or drink the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord.
Corinthians 11:28	But let a man prove himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup.
Corinthians 11:29	For he that eateth and drinketh, eateth and drinketh judgment unto himself, if he discern not the body.
Corinthians 11:30	For this cause many among you are weak and sickly, and not a few sleep.
Corinthians 11:31	But if we discerned ourselves, we should not be judged.
Corinthians 11:32	But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world.
Corinthians 11:33	Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, wait one for another.
Corinthians 11:34	If any man is hungry, let him eat at home; that your coming together be not unto judgment. And the rest will I set in order whensoever I come.
Corinthians 12:1	Now concerning spiritual gifts , brethren, I would not have you ignorant.
Corinthians 12:2	Ye know that when ye were Gentiles ye were led away unto those dumb idols, howsoever ye might led.
Corinthians 12:3	Wherefore I make known unto you, that no man speaking in the Spirit of God saith, Jesus is anathema; and no man can say, Jesus is Lord, but in the Holy Spirit.
Corinthians 12:4	Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.
Corinthians 12:5	And there are diversities of ministrations, and the same Lord.
Corinthians 12:6	And there are diversities of workings, but the same God, who worketh all things in all.
Corinthians 12:7	But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit to profit withal.
Corinthians 12:8	For to one is given through the Spirit the word of wisdom; and to another the word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit:
Corinthians 12:9	to another faith, in the same Spirit; and to another gifts of healings, in the one Spirit;
Corinthians 12:10	and to another workings of miracles; and to another prophecy; and to another discernings of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; and to another the interpretation of tongues:
Corinthians 12:11	but all these worketh the one and the same Spirit, dividing to each one severally even as he will.
Corinthians 12:12	For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ.
Corinthians 12:13	For in one Spirit were we all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all made to drink of one Spirit.
Corinthians 12:14	For the body is not one member, but many.
Corinthians 12:15	If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; it is not therefore not of the body.
Corinthians 12:16	And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; it is not therefore not of the body.
Corinthians 12:17	If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?
Corinthians 12:18	But now hath God set the members each one of them in the body, even as it pleased him.
Corinthians 12:19	And if they were all one member, where were the body?
Corinthians 12:20	But now they are many members, but one body.
Corinthians 12:21	And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee: or again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
Corinthians 12:22	Nay, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary:
Corinthians 12:23	and those parts of the body, which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness;
Corinthians 12:24	whereas our comely parts have no need: but God tempered the body together, giving more abundant honor to that part which lacked;
Corinthians 12:25	that there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another.
Corinthians 12:26	And whether one member suffereth, all the members suffer with it; or one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.
Corinthians 12:27	Now ye are the body of Christ, and severally members thereof.
Corinthians 12:28	And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, divers kinds of tongues.
Corinthians 12:29	Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of miracles?
Corinthians 12:30	have all gifts of healings? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?
Corinthians 12:31	But desire earnestly the greater gifts. And moreover a most excellent way show I unto you.
Corinthians 13:1	If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am become sounding brass, or a clanging cymbal.
Corinthians 13:2	And if I have the gift of prophecy, and know all mysteries and all knowledge; and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
Corinthians 13:3	And if I bestow all my goods to feed the poor , and if I give my body to be burned, but have not love, it profiteth me nothing.
Corinthians 13:4	Love suffereth long, and is kind; love envieth not; love vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up,
Corinthians 13:5	doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not its own, is not provoked, taketh not account of evil;
Corinthians 13:6	rejoiceth not in unrighteousness, but rejoiceth with the truth;
Corinthians 13:7	beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things.
Corinthians 13:8	Love never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall be done away; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall be done away.
Corinthians 13:9	For we know in part, and we prophesy in part;
Corinthians 13:10	but when that which is perfect is come, that which is in part shall be done away.
Corinthians 13:11	When I was a child, I spake as a child, I felt as a child, I thought as a child: now that I am become a man, I have put away childish things.
Corinthians 13:12	For now we see in a mirror, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know fully even as also I was fully known.
Corinthians 13:13	But now abideth faith, hope, love, these three; and the greatest of these is love.
Corinthians 14:1	Follow after love; yet desire earnestly spiritual gifts , but rather that ye may prophesy.
Corinthians 14:2	For he that speaketh in a tongue speaketh not unto men, but unto God; for no man understandeth; but in the spirit he speaketh mysteries.
Corinthians 14:3	But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men edification, and exhortation, and consolation.
Corinthians 14:4	He that speaketh in a tongue edifieth himself; but he that prophesieth edifieth the church.
Corinthians 14:5	Now I would have you all speak with tongues, but rather that ye should prophesy: and greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh with tongues, except he interpret, that the church may receive edifying.
Corinthians 14:6	But now, brethren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you, unless I speak to you either by way of revelation, or of knowledge, or of prophesying, or of teaching?
Corinthians 14:7	Even things without life, giving a voice, whether pipe or harp, if they give not a distinction in the sounds, how shall it be known what is piped or harped?
Corinthians 14:8	For if the trumpet give an uncertain voice, who shall prepare himself for war?
Corinthians 14:9	So also ye, unless ye utter by the tongue speech easy to understood, how shall it be known what is spoken? for ye will be speaking into the air.
Corinthians 14:10	There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and no kind is without signification.
Corinthians 14:11	If then I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be to him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh will be a barbarian unto me.
Corinthians 14:12	So also ye, since ye are zealous of spiritual gifts , seek that ye may abound unto the edifying of the church.
Corinthians 14:13	Wherefore let him that speaketh in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
Corinthians 14:14	For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my understanding is unfruitful.
Corinthians 14:15	What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also: I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also.
Corinthians 14:16	Else if thou bless with the spirit, how shall he that filleth the place of the unlearned say the Amen at thy giving of thanks, seeing he knoweth not what thou sayest?
Corinthians 14:17	For thou verily givest thanks well, but the other is not edified.
Corinthians 14:18	I thank God, I speak with tongues more than you all:
Corinthians 14:19	howbeit in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
Corinthians 14:20	Brethren, be not children in mind: yet in malice be ye babes, but in mind be men.
Corinthians 14:21	In the law it is written, By men of strange tongues and by the lips of strangers will I speak unto this people; and not even thus will they hear me, saith the Lord.
Corinthians 14:22	Wherefore tongues are for a sign, not to them that believe, but to the unbelieving: but prophesying is for a sign , not to the unbelieving, but to them that believe.
Corinthians 14:23	If therefore the whole church be assembled together and all speak with tongues, and there come in men unlearned or unbelieving, will they not say that ye are mad?
Corinthians 14:24	But if all prophesy, and there come in one unbelieving or unlearned, he is reproved by all, he is judged by all;
Corinthians 14:25	the secrets of his heart are made manifest; and so he will fall down on his face and worship God, declaring that God is among you indeed.
Corinthians 14:26	What is it then, brethren? When ye come together, each one hath a psalm, hath a teaching, hath a revelation, hath a tongue, hath an interpretation. Let all things be done unto edifying.
Corinthians 14:27	If any man speaketh in a tongue, let it be by two, or at the most three, and that in turn; and let one interpret:
Corinthians 14:28	but if there be no interpreter, let him keep silence in the church; and let him speak to himself, and to God.
Corinthians 14:29	And let the prophets speak by two or three, and let the others discern.
Corinthians 14:30	But if a revelation be made to another sitting by, let the first keep silence.
Corinthians 14:31	For ye all can prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be exhorted;
Corinthians 14:32	and the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets;
Corinthians 14:33	for God is not a God of confusion, but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,
Corinthians 14:34	let the women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but let them be in subjection, as also saith the law.
Corinthians 14:35	And if they would learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home: for it is shameful for a woman to speak in the church.
Corinthians 14:36	What? was it from you that the word of God went forth? or came it unto you alone?
Corinthians 14:37	If any man thinketh himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him take knowledge of the things which I write unto you, that they are the commandment of the Lord.
Corinthians 14:38	But if any man is ignorant, let him be ignorant.
Corinthians 14:39	Wherefore, my brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy, and forbid not to speak with tongues.
Corinthians 14:40	But let all things be done decently and in order.
Corinthians 15:1	Now I make known unto you brethren, the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye received, wherein also ye stand,
Corinthians 15:2	by which also ye are saved, if ye hold fast the word which I preached unto you, except ye believed in vain.
Corinthians 15:3	For I delivered unto you first of all that which also I received: that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures;
Corinthians 15:4	and that he was buried; and that he hath been raised on the third day according to the scriptures;
Corinthians 15:5	and that he appeared to Cephas; then to the twelve;
Corinthians 15:6	then he appeared to above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain until now, but some are fallen asleep;
Corinthians 15:7	then he appeared to James; then to all the apostles;
Corinthians 15:8	and last of all, as to the child untimely born, he appeared to me also.
Corinthians 15:9	For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
Corinthians 15:10	But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not found vain; but I labored more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.
Corinthians 15:11	Whether then it be I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed.
Corinthians 15:12	Now if Christ is preached that he hath been raised from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead?
Corinthians 15:13	But if there is no resurrection of the dead, neither hath Christ been raised:
Corinthians 15:14	and if Christ hath not been raised, then is our preaching vain, your faith also is vain.
Corinthians 15:15	Yea, we are found false witnesses of God; because we witnessed of God that he raised up Christ: whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead are not raised.
Corinthians 15:16	For if the dead are not raised, neither hath Christ been raised:
Corinthians 15:17	and if Christ hath not been raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.
Corinthians 15:18	Then they also that are fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
Corinthians 15:19	If we have only hoped in Christ in this life, we are of all men most pitiable.
Corinthians 15:20	But now hath Christ been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of them that are asleep.
Corinthians 15:21	For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.
Corinthians 15:22	For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.
Corinthians 15:23	But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; then they that are Christ's, at his coming.
Corinthians 15:24	Then cometh the end, when he shall deliver up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have abolished all rule and all authority and power.
Corinthians 15:25	For he must reign, till he hath put all his enemies under his feet.
Corinthians 15:26	The last enemy that shall be abolished is death.
Corinthians 15:27	For, He put all things in subjection under his feet. But when he saith, All things are put in subjection, it is evident that he is excepted who did subject all things unto him.
Corinthians 15:28	And when all things have been subjected unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subjected to him that did subject all things unto him, that God may be all in all.
Corinthians 15:29	Else what shall they do that are baptized for the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why then are they baptized for them?
Corinthians 15:30	Why do we also stand in jeopardy every hour?
Corinthians 15:31	I protest by that glorifying in you, brethren, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily.
Corinthians 15:32	If after the manner of men I fought with beasts at Ephesus, what doth it profit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die.
Corinthians 15:33	Be not deceived: Evil companionships corrupt good morals.
Corinthians 15:34	Awake to soberness righteously, and sin not; for some have no knowledge of God: I speak this to move you to shame.
Corinthians 15:35	But some one will say, How are the dead raised? and with what manner of body do they come?
Corinthians 15:36	Thou foolish one, that which thou thyself sowest is not quickened except it die:
Corinthians 15:37	and that which thou sowest, thou sowest not the body that shall be, but a bare grain, it may chance of wheat, or of some other kind;
Corinthians 15:38	but God giveth it a body even as it pleased him, and to each seed a body of its own.
Corinthians 15:39	All flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one flesh of men, and another flesh of beasts, and another flesh of birds, and another of fishes.
Corinthians 15:40	There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another.
Corinthians 15:41	There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star differeth from another star in glory.
Corinthians 15:42	So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption:
Corinthians 15:43	it is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness; it is raised in power:
Corinthians 15:44	it is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body .
Corinthians 15:45	So also it is written, The first man Adam became a living soul. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit.
Corinthians 15:46	Howbeit that is not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; then that which is spiritual.
Corinthians 15:47	The first man is of the earth, earthy: the second man is of heaven.
Corinthians 15:48	As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy: and as is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.
Corinthians 15:49	And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.
Corinthians 15:50	Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit incorruption.
Corinthians 15:51	Behold, I tell you a mystery: We all shall not sleep, but we shall all be changed,
Corinthians 15:52	in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.
Corinthians 15:53	For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.
Corinthians 15:54	But when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.
Corinthians 15:55	O death, where is thy victory? O death, where is thy sting?
Corinthians 15:56	The sting of death is sin; and the power of sin is the law:
Corinthians 15:57	but thanks be to God, who giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Corinthians 15:58	Wherefore, my beloved brethren, be ye stedfast, unmoveable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labor is not vain in the Lord.
Corinthians 16:1	Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I gave order to the churches of Galatia, so also do ye.
Corinthians 16:2	Upon the first day of the week let each one of you lay by him in store, as he may prosper, that no collections be made when I come.
Corinthians 16:3	And when I arrive, whomsoever ye shall approve, them will I send with letters to carry your bounty unto Jerusalem:
Corinthians 16:4	and if it be meet for me to go also, they shall go with me.
Corinthians 16:5	But I will come unto you, when I shall have passed through Macedonia; for I pass through Macedonia;
Corinthians 16:6	but with you it may be that I shall abide, or even winter, that ye may set me forward on my journey whithersoever I go.
Corinthians 16:7	For I do not wish to see you now by the way; for I hope to tarry a while with you, if the Lord permit.
Corinthians 16:8	But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost;
Corinthians 16:9	for a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries.
Corinthians 16:10	Now if Timothy come, see that he be with you without fear; for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do:
Corinthians 16:11	let no man therefore despise him. But set him forward on his journey in peace, that he may come unto me: for I expect him with the brethren.
Corinthians 16:12	But as touching Apollos the brother, I besought him much to come unto you with the brethren: and it was not all his will to come now; but he will come when he shall have opportunity.
Corinthians 16:13	Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, be strong.
Corinthians 16:14	Let all that ye do be done in love.
Corinthians 16:15	Now I beseech you, brethren (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have set themselves to minister unto the saints),
Corinthians 16:16	that ye also be in subjection unto such, and to every one that helpeth in the work and laboreth.
Corinthians 16:17	And I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part they supplied.
Corinthians 16:18	For they refreshed my spirit and yours: acknowledge ye therefore them that are such.
Corinthians 16:19	The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Prisca salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.
Corinthians 16:20	All the brethren salute you. Salute one another with a holy kiss.
Corinthians 16:21	The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand.
Corinthians 16:22	If any man loveth not the Lord, let him be anathema. Maranatha.
Corinthians 16:23	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Corinthians 16:24	My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
Thessalonians 1:1	Paul, and Silvanus, and Timothy, unto the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace.
Thessalonians 1:2	We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers;
Thessalonians 1:3	remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, before our God and Father;
Thessalonians 1:4	knowing, brethren beloved of God, your election,
Thessalonians 1:5	how that our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit, and in much assurance; even as ye know what manner of men we showed ourselves toward you for your sake.
Thessalonians 1:6	And ye became imitators of us, and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Spirit;
Thessalonians 1:7	so that ye became an ensample to all that believe in Macedonia and in Achaia.
Thessalonians 1:8	For from you hath sounded forth the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but in every place your faith to God-ward is gone forth; so that we need not to speak anything.
Thessalonians 1:9	For they themselves report concerning us what manner of entering in we had unto you; and how ye turned unto God from idols, to serve a living and true God,
Thessalonians 1:10	and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, who delivereth us from the wrath to come.
Thessalonians 2:1	For yourselves, brethren, know our entering in unto you, that it hath not been found vain:
Thessalonians 2:2	but having suffered before and been shamefully treated, as ye know, at Philippi, we waxed bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God in much conflict.
Thessalonians 2:3	For our exhortation is not of error, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile:
Thessalonians 2:4	but even as we have been approved of God to be intrusted with the gospel, so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God who proveth our hearts.
Thessalonians 2:5	For neither at any time were we found using words of flattery, as ye know, nor a cloak of covetousness, God is witness;
Thessalonians 2:6	nor seeking glory of men, neither from you nor from others, when we might have claimed authority as apostles of Christ.
Thessalonians 2:7	But we were gentle in the midst of you, as when a nurse cherisheth her own children:
Thessalonians 2:8	even so, being affectionately desirous of you, we were well pleased to impart unto you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because ye were become very dear to us.
Thessalonians 2:9	For ye remember, brethren, our labor and travail: working night and day, that we might not burden any of you, we preached unto you the gospel of God.
Thessalonians 2:10	Ye are witnesses, and God also , how holily and righteously and unblameably we behaved ourselves toward you that believe:
Thessalonians 2:11	as ye know how we dealt with each one of you, as a father with his own children, exhorting you, and encouraging you , and testifying,
Thessalonians 2:12	to the end that ye should walk worthily of God, who calleth you into his own kingdom and glory.
Thessalonians 2:13	And for this cause we also thank God without ceasing, that, when ye received from us the word of the message, even the word of God, ye accepted it not as the word of men, but, as it is in truth, the word of God, which also worketh in you that believe.
Thessalonians 2:14	For ye, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judaea in Christ Jesus: for ye also suffered the same things of your own countrymen, even as they did of the Jews;
Thessalonians 2:15	who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove out us, and pleased not God, and are contrary to all men;
Thessalonians 2:16	forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved; to fill up their sins always: but the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost.
Thessalonians 2:17	But we, brethren, being bereaved of you for a short season, in presence not in heart, endeavored the more exceedingly to see your face with great desire:
Thessalonians 2:18	because we would fain have come unto you, I Paul once and again; and Satan hindered us.
Thessalonians 2:19	For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of glorying? Are not even ye, before our Lord Jesus at his coming?
Thessalonians 2:20	For ye are our glory and our joy.
Thessalonians 3:1	Wherefore when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to be left behind at Athens alone;
Thessalonians 3:2	and sent Timothy, our brother and God's minister in the gospel of Christ, to establish you, and to comfort you concerning your faith;
Thessalonians 3:3	that no man be moved by these afflictions; for yourselves know that hereunto we are appointed.
Thessalonians 3:4	For verily, when we were with you, we told you beforehand that we are to suffer affliction; even as it came to pass, and ye know.
Thessalonians 3:5	For this cause I also, when I could no longer forbear, sent that I might know your faith, lest by any means the tempter had tempted you, and our labor should be in vain.
Thessalonians 3:6	But when Timothy came even now unto us from you, and brought us glad tidings of your faith and love, and that ye have good remembrance of us always, longing to see us, even as we also to see you;
Thessalonians 3:7	for this cause, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our distress and affliction through your faith:
Thessalonians 3:8	for now we live, if ye stand fast in the Lord.
Thessalonians 3:9	For what thanksgiving can we render again unto God for you, for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before our God;
Thessalonians 3:10	night and day praying exceedingly that we may see your face, and may perfect that which is lacking in your faith?
Thessalonians 3:11	Now may our God and Father himself, and our Lord Jesus, direct our way unto you:
Thessalonians 3:12	and the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we also do toward you;
Thessalonians 3:13	to the end he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before our God and Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.
Thessalonians 4:1	Finally then, brethren, we beseech and exhort you in the Lord Jesus, that, as ye received of us how ye ought to walk and to please God, even as ye do walk, --that ye abound more and more.
Thessalonians 4:2	For ye know what charge we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
Thessalonians 4:3	For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye abstain from fornication;
Thessalonians 4:4	that each one of you know how to possess himself of his own vessel in sanctification and honor,
Thessalonians 4:5	not in the passion of lust, even as the Gentiles who know not God;
Thessalonians 4:6	that no man transgress, and wrong his brother in the matter: because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as also we forewarned you and testified.
Thessalonians 4:7	For God called us not for uncleanness, but in sanctification.
Thessalonians 4:8	Therefore he that rejecteth, rejecteth not man, but God, who giveth his Holy Spirit unto you.
Thessalonians 4:9	But concerning love of the brethren ye have no need that one write unto you: for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another;
Thessalonians 4:10	for indeed ye do it toward all the brethren that are in all Macedonia. But we exhort you, brethren, that ye abound more and more;
Thessalonians 4:11	and that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business, and to work with your hands, even as we charged you;
Thessalonians 4:12	that ye may walk becomingly toward them that are without, and may have need of nothing.
Thessalonians 4:13	But we would not have you ignorant, brethren, concerning them that fall asleep; that ye sorrow not, even as the rest, who have no hope.
Thessalonians 4:14	For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also that are fallen asleep in Jesus will God bring with him.
Thessalonians 4:15	For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we that are alive, that are left unto the coming of the Lord, shall in no wise precede them that are fallen asleep.
Thessalonians 4:16	For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven, with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first;
Thessalonians 4:17	then we that are alive, that are left, shall together with them be caught up in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
Thessalonians 4:18	Wherefore comfort one another with these words.
Thessalonians 5:1	But concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that aught be written unto you.
Thessalonians 5:2	For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night.
Thessalonians 5:3	When they are saying, Peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall in no wise escape.
Thessalonians 5:4	But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief:
Thessalonians 5:5	for ye are all sons of light, and sons of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness;
Thessalonians 5:6	so then let us not sleep, as do the rest, but let us watch and be sober.
Thessalonians 5:7	For they that sleep sleep in the night: and they that are drunken are drunken in the night.
Thessalonians 5:8	But let us, since we are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and for a helmet, the hope of salvation.
Thessalonians 5:9	For God appointed us not into wrath, but unto the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
Thessalonians 5:10	who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him.
Thessalonians 5:11	Wherefore exhort one another, and build each other up, even as also ye do.
Thessalonians 5:12	But we beseech you, brethren, to know them that labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you;
Thessalonians 5:13	and to esteem them exceeding highly in love for their work's sake. Be at peace among yourselves.
Thessalonians 5:14	And we exhort you, brethren, admonish the disorderly, encourage the fainthearted, support the weak, be longsuffering toward all.
Thessalonians 5:15	See that none render unto any one evil for evil; but always follow after that which is good, one toward another, and toward all.
Thessalonians 5:16	Rejoice always;
Thessalonians 5:17	pray without ceasing;
Thessalonians 5:18	in everything give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus to you-ward.
Thessalonians 5:19	Quench not the Spirit;
Thessalonians 5:20	despise not prophesyings;
Thessalonians 5:21	prove all things; hold fast that which is good;
Thessalonians 5:22	abstain from every form of evil.
Thessalonians 5:23	And the God of peace himself sanctify you wholly; and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved entire, without blame at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Thessalonians 5:24	Faithful is he that calleth you, who will also do it.
Thessalonians 5:25	Brethren, pray for us.
Thessalonians 5:26	Salute all the brethren with a holy kiss.
Thessalonians 5:27	I adjure you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the brethren.
Thessalonians 5:28	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Timothy 1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus according to the commandment of God our Saviour, and Christ Jesus our hope;
Timothy 1:2	unto Timothy, my true child in faith: Grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
Timothy 1:3	As I exhorted thee to tarry at Ephesus, when I was going into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge certain men not to teach a different doctrine,
Timothy 1:4	neither to give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questionings, rather than a dispensation of God which is in faith;'so do I now .
Timothy 1:5	But the end of the charge is love out of a pure heart and a good conscience and faith unfeigned:
Timothy 1:6	from which things some having swerved have turned aside unto vain talking;
Timothy 1:7	desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither what they say, nor whereof they confidently affirm.
Timothy 1:8	But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully,
Timothy 1:9	as knowing this, that law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and unruly, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
Timothy 1:10	for fornicators, for abusers of themselves with men, for menstealers, for liars, for false swearers, and if there be any other thing contrary to the sound doctrine;
Timothy 1:11	according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust.
Timothy 1:12	I thank him that enabled me, even Christ Jesus our Lord, for that he counted me faithful, appointing me to his'service;
Timothy 1:13	though I was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious: howbeit I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief;
Timothy 1:14	and the grace of our Lord abounded exceedingly with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
Timothy 1:15	Faithful is the saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief:
Timothy 1:16	howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me as chief might Jesus Christ show forth all his longsuffering, for an ensample of them that should thereafter believe on him unto eternal life.
Timothy 1:17	Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
Timothy 1:18	This charge I commit unto thee, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies which led the way to thee, that by them thou mayest war the good warfare;
Timothy 1:19	holding faith and a good conscience; which some having thrust from them made shipwreck concerning the faith:
Timothy 1:20	of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I delivered unto Satan, that they might be taught not to blaspheme.
Timothy 2:1	I exhort therefore, first of all, that supplications, prayers, intercessions, thanksgivings, be made for all men;
Timothy 2:2	for kings and all that are in high place; that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and gravity.
Timothy 2:3	This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour;
Timothy 2:4	who would have all men to be saved, and come to the knowledge of the truth.
Timothy 2:5	For there is one God, one mediator also between God and men, himself man, Christ Jesus,
Timothy 2:6	who gave himself a ransom for all; the testimony to be borne in its own times;
Timothy 2:7	whereunto I was appointed a preacher and an apostle (I speak the truth, I lie not), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
Timothy 2:8	I desire therefore that the men pray in every place, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and disputing.
Timothy 2:9	In like manner, that women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with shamefastness and sobriety; not with braided hair, and gold or pearls or costly raiment;
Timothy 2:10	but (which becometh women professing godliness) through good works.
Timothy 2:11	Let a woman learn in quietness with all subjection.
Timothy 2:12	But I permit not a woman to teach, nor to have dominion over a man, but to be in quietness.
Timothy 2:13	For Adam was first formed, then Eve;
Timothy 2:14	and Adam was not beguiled, but the woman being beguiled hath fallen into transgression:
Timothy 2:15	but she shall be saved through her child-bearing, if they continue in faith and love and sanctification with sobriety.
Timothy 3:1	Faithful is the saying, If a man seeketh the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work.
Timothy 3:2	The bishop therefore must be without reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded, orderly, given to hospitality, apt to teach;
Timothy 3:3	no brawler, no striker; but gentle, not contentious, no lover of money;
Timothy 3:4	one that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity;
Timothy 3:5	(but if a man knoweth not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God?)
Timothy 3:6	not a novice, lest being puffed up he fall into the condemnation of the devil.
Timothy 3:7	Moreover he must have good testimony from them that are without; lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.
Timothy 3:8	Deacons in like manner must be grave, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre;
Timothy 3:9	holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.
Timothy 3:10	And let these also first be proved; then let them serve as deacons, if they be blameless.
Timothy 3:11	Women in like manner must be grave, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things.
Timothy 3:12	Let deacons be husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well.
Timothy 3:13	For they that have served well as deacons gain to themselves a good standing, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
Timothy 3:14	These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly;
Timothy 3:15	but if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how men ought to behave themselves in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth.
Timothy 3:16	And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness; He who was manifested in the flesh, Justified in the spirit, Seen of angels, Preached among the nations, Believed on in the world, Received up in glory.
Timothy 4:1	But the Spirit saith expressly, that in later times some shall fall away from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of demons,
Timothy 4:2	through the hypocrisy of men that speak lies, branded in their own conscience as with a hot iron;
Timothy 4:3	forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which God created to be received with thanksgiving by them that believe and know the truth.
Timothy 4:4	For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be rejected, if it be received with thanksgiving:
Timothy 4:5	for it is sanctified through the word of God and prayer.
Timothy 4:6	If thou put the brethren in mind of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Christ Jesus, nourished in the words of the faith, and of the good doctrine which thou hast followed until now :
Timothy 4:7	but refuse profane and old wives fables. And exercise thyself unto godliness:
Timothy 4:8	for bodily exercise is profitable for a little; but godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the life which now is, and of that which is to come.
Timothy 4:9	Faithful is the saying, and worthy of all acceptation.
Timothy 4:10	For to this end we labor and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, specially of them that believe.
Timothy 4:11	These things command and teach.
Timothy 4:12	Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an ensample to them that believe, in word, in manner of life, in love, in faith, in purity.
Timothy 4:13	Till I come, give heed to reading, to exhortation, to teaching.
Timothy 4:14	Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.
Timothy 4:15	Be diligent in these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy progress may be manifest unto all.
Timothy 4:16	Take heed to thyself, and to thy teaching. Continue in these things; for in doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee.
Timothy 5:1	Rebuke not an elder, but exhort him as a father; the younger men as brethren:
Timothy 5:2	the elder women as mothers; the younger as sisters, in all purity.
Timothy 5:3	Honor widows that are widows indeed.
Timothy 5:4	But if any widow hath children or grandchildren, let them learn first to show piety towards their own family, and to requite their parents: for this is acceptable in the sight of God.
Timothy 5:5	Now she that is a widow indeed, and desolate, hath her hope set on God, and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day.
Timothy 5:6	But she that giveth herself to pleasure is dead while she liveth.
Timothy 5:7	These things also command, that they may be without reproach.
Timothy 5:8	But if any provideth not for his own, and specially his own household, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an unbeliever.
Timothy 5:9	Let none be enrolled as a widow under threescore years old, having been the wife of one man,
Timothy 5:10	well reported of for good works; if she hath brought up children, if she hath used hospitality to strangers, if she hath washed the saints feet, if she hath relieved the afflicted, if she hath diligently followed every good work.
Timothy 5:11	But younger widows refuse: for when they have waxed wanton against Christ, they desire to marry;
Timothy 5:12	having condemnation, because they have rejected their first pledge.
Timothy 5:13	And withal they learn also to be idle, going about from house to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not.
Timothy 5:14	I desire therefore that the younger widows marry, bear children, rule the household, give no occasion to the adversary for reviling:
Timothy 5:15	for already some are turned aside after Satan.
Timothy 5:16	If any woman that believeth hath widows, let her relieve them, and let not the church be burdened; that it mat relieve them that are widows indeed.
Timothy 5:17	Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and in teaching.
Timothy 5:18	For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn. And, The laborer is worthy of his hire.
Timothy 5:19	Against an elder receive not an accusation, except at the mouth of two or three witnesses.
Timothy 5:20	Them that sin reprove in the sight of all, that the rest also may be in fear.
Timothy 5:21	I charge thee in the sight of God, and Christ Jesus, and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing by partiality.
Timothy 5:22	Lay hands hastily on no man, neither be partaker of other men's sins: keep thyself pure.
Timothy 5:23	Be no longer a drinker of water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities.
Timothy 5:24	Some men's sins are evident, going before unto judgment; and some men also they follow after.
Timothy 5:25	In like manner also there are good works that are evident; and such as are otherwise cannot be hid.
Timothy 6:1	Let as many as are servants under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and the doctrine be not blasphemed.
Timothy 6:2	And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren; but let them serve them the rather, because they that partake of the benefit are believing and beloved. These things teach and exhort.
Timothy 6:3	If any man teacheth a different doctrine, and consenteth not to sound words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness;
Timothy 6:4	he is puffed up, knowing nothing, but doting about questionings and disputes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings,
Timothy 6:5	wranglings of men corrupted in mind and bereft of the truth, supposing that godliness is a way of gain.
Timothy 6:6	But godliness with contentment is great gain:
Timothy 6:7	for we brought nothing into the world, for neither can we carry anything out;
Timothy 6:8	but having food and covering we shall be therewith content.
Timothy 6:9	But they that are minded to be rich fall into a temptation and a snare and many foolish and hurtful lusts, such as drown men in destruction and perdition.
Timothy 6:10	For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil: which some reaching after have been led astray from the faith, and have pierced themselves through with many sorrows.
Timothy 6:11	But thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness.
Timothy 6:12	Fight the good fight of the faith, lay hold on the life eternal, whereunto thou wast called, and didst confess the good confession in the sight of many witnesses.
Timothy 6:13	I charge thee in the sight of God, who giveth life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed the good confession;
Timothy 6:14	that thou keep the commandment, without spot, without reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ:
Timothy 6:15	which in its own times he shall show, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords;
Timothy 6:16	who only hath immortality, dwelling in light unapproachable; whom no man hath seen, nor can see: to whom be honor and power eternal. Amen.
Timothy 6:17	Charge them that are rich in this present world, that they be not highminded, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy;
Timothy 6:18	that they do good, that they be rich in good works, that they be ready to distribute, willing to communicate;
Timothy 6:19	laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on the life which is life indeed.
Timothy 6:20	O Timothy, guard that which is committed unto thee , turning away from the profane babblings and oppositions of the knowledge which is falsely so called;
Timothy 6:21	which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with you.
Peter 1:1	Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the elect who are sojourners of the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
Peter 1:2	according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace be multiplied.
Peter 1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy begat us again unto a living hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
Peter 1:4	unto an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you,
Peter 1:5	who by the power of God are guarded through faith unto a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
Peter 1:6	Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, ye have been put to grief in manifold trials,
Peter 1:7	that the proof of your faith, being more precious than gold that perisheth though it is proved by fire, may be found unto praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ:
Peter 1:8	whom not having seen ye love; on whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice greatly with joy unspeakable and full of glory:
Peter 1:9	receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your'souls.
Peter 1:10	Concerning which salvation the prophets sought and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that'should come unto you:
Peter 1:11	searching what time or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did point unto, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glories that should follow them.
Peter 1:12	To whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto you, did they minister these things, which now have been announced unto you through them that preached the gospel unto you by the Holy Spirit sent forth from heaven; which things angel desire to look into.
Peter 1:13	Wherefore girding up the loins of your mind, be sober and set your hope perfectly on the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ;
Peter 1:14	as children of obedience, not fashioning yourselves according to your former lusts in the time of your ignorance:
Peter 1:15	but like as he who called you is holy, be ye yourselves also holy in all manner of living;
Peter 1:16	because it is written, Ye shall be holy; for I am holy.
Peter 1:17	And if ye call on him as Father, who without respect of persons judgeth according to each man's work, pass the time of your sojourning in fear:
Peter 1:18	knowing that ye were redeemed, not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, from your vain manner of life handed down from your fathers;
Peter 1:19	but with precious blood, as of a lamb without spot, even the blood of Christ:
Peter 1:20	who was foreknown indeed before the foundation of the world, but was manifested at the end of times for your sake,
Peter 1:21	who through him are believers in God, that raised him from the dead, and gave him glory; so that your faith and hope might be in God.
Peter 1:22	Seeing ye have purified your souls in your obedience to the truth unto unfeigned love of the brethren, love one another from the heart fervently:
Peter 1:23	having been begotten again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, through the word of God, which liveth and abideth.
Peter 1:24	For, All flesh is as grass, And all the glory thereof as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower falleth:
Peter 1:25	But the word of the Lord abideth for ever. And this is the word of good tidings which was preached unto you.
Peter 2:1	Putting away therefore all wickedness, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings,
Peter 2:2	as newborn babes, long for the spiritual milk which is without guile, that ye may grow thereby unto salvation;
Peter 2:3	if ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious:
Peter 2:4	unto whom coming, a living stone, rejected indeed of men, but with God elect, precious,
Peter 2:5	ye also, as living stones, are built up a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
Peter 2:6	Because it is contained in scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: And he that believeth on him shall not be put to shame.
Peter 2:7	For you therefore that believe is the preciousness: but for such as disbelieve, The stone which the builders rejected, The same was made the head of the corner;
Peter 2:8	and, A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence; for they stumble at the word, being disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed.
Peter 2:9	But ye are a elect race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, that ye may show forth the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvellous light:
Peter 2:10	who in time past were no people, but now are the people of God: who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.
Peter 2:11	Beloved, I beseech you as sojourners and pilgrims, to abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul;
Peter 2:12	having your behavior seemly among the Gentiles; that, wherein they speak against you as evil-doers, they may by your good works, which they behold, glorify God in the day of visitation.
Peter 2:13	Be subject to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether to the king, as supreme;
Peter 2:14	or unto governors, as sent by him for vengeance on evil-doers and for praise to them that do well.
Peter 2:15	For so is the will of God, that by well-doing ye should put to silence the ignorance of foolish men:
Peter 2:16	as free, and not using your freedom for a cloak of wickedness, but as bondservants of God.
Peter 2:17	Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king.
Peter 2:18	Servants, be in subjection to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward.
Peter 2:19	For this is acceptable, if for conscience toward God a man endureth griefs, suffering wrongfully.
Peter 2:20	For what glory is it, if, when ye sin, and are buffeted for it , ye shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer for it , ye shall take it patiently, this is acceptable with God.
Peter 2:21	For hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, that ye should follow his steps:
Peter 2:22	who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth:
Peter 2:23	who, when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered threatened not; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously:
Peter 2:24	who his own self bare our sins in his body upon the tree, that we, having died unto sins, might live unto righteousness; by whose stripes ye were healed.
Peter 2:25	For ye were going astray like sheep; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.
Peter 3:1	In like manner, ye wives, be in subjection to your won husbands; that, even if any obey not the word, they may without the word be gained by the behavior of their wives;
Peter 3:2	beholding your chaste behavior coupled with fear.
Peter 3:3	Whose adorning let it not be the outward adorning of braiding the hair, and of wearing jewels of gold, or of putting on apparel;
Peter 3:4	but let it be the hidden man of the heart, in the incorruptible apparel of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price.
Peter 3:5	For after this manner aforetime the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands:
Peter 3:6	as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose children ye now are, if ye do well, and are not put in fear by any terror.
Peter 3:7	Ye husbands, in like manner, dwell with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor unto the woman, as unto the weaker vessel, as being also joint-heirs of the grace of life; to the end that your prayers be not hindered.
Peter 3:8	Finally, be ye all likeminded, compassionate, loving as brethren, tenderhearted, humbleminded:
Peter 3:9	not rendering evil for evil, or reviling for reviling; but contrariwise blessing; for hereunto were ye called, that ye should inherit a blessing.
Peter 3:10	For, He that would love life, And see good days, Let him refrain his tongue from evil, And his lips that they speak no guile:
Peter 3:11	And let him turn away from evil, and do good; Let him seek peace, and pursue it.
Peter 3:12	For the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, And his ears unto their supplication: But the face of the Lord is upon them that do evil.
Peter 3:13	And who is he that will harm you, if ye be zealous of that which is good?
Peter 3:14	But even if ye should suffer for righteousness'sake, blessed are ye: and fear not their fear, neither be troubled;
Peter 3:15	but sanctify in your hearts Christ as Lord: being ready always to give answer to every man that asketh you a reason concerning the hope that is in you, yet with meekness and fear:
Peter 3:16	having a good conscience; that, wherein ye are spoken against, they may be put to shame who revile your good manner of life in Christ.
Peter 3:17	For it is better, if the will of God should so will, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil-doing.
Peter 3:18	Because Christ also suffered for sins once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God; being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit;
Peter 3:19	in which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison,
Peter 3:20	that aforetime were disobedient, when the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water:
Peter 3:21	which also after a true likeness doth now save you, even baptism, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the interrogation of a good conscience toward God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ;
Peter 3:22	who is one the right hand of God, having gone into heaven; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him.
Peter 4:1	Forasmuch then as Christ suffered in the flesh, arm ye yourselves also with the same mind; for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin;
Peter 4:2	that ye no longer should live the rest of your time in flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God.
Peter 4:3	For the time past may suffice to have wrought the desire of the Gentiles, and to have walked in lasciviousness, lusts, winebibbings, revellings, carousings, and abominable idolatries:
Peter 4:4	wherein they think strange that ye run not with them into the same excess of riot, speaking evil of of :
Peter 4:5	who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the living and the dead.
Peter 4:6	For unto this end was the gospel preached even to the dead, that they might be judged indeed according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.
Peter 4:7	But the end of all things is at hand: be ye therefore of sound mind, and be sober unto prayer:
Peter 4:8	above all things being fervent in your love among yourselves; for love covereth a multitude of sins:
Peter 4:9	using hospitality one to another without murmuring:
Peter 4:10	according as each hath received a gift, ministering it among yourselves, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God;
Peter 4:11	if any man speaketh,'speaking as it were oracles of God; is any man ministereth, ministering as of the strength which God supplieth: that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, whose is the glory and the dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Peter 4:12	Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial among you, which cometh upon you to prove you, as though a strange thing happened unto you:
Peter 4:13	but insomuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings, rejoice; that at the revelation of his glory also ye may rejoice with exceeding joy.
Peter 4:14	If ye are reproached for the name of Christ, blessed are ye ; because the'spirit of glory and the Spirit of God resteth upon you.
Peter 4:15	For let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evil-doer, or as a meddler in other men's matters:
Peter 4:16	but if a man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him glorify God in this name.
Peter 4:17	For the time is come for judgment to begin at the house of God: and if it begin first at us, what'shall be the end of them that obey not the gospel of God?
Peter 4:18	And if the righteous is scarcely saved, where shall the ungodly and sinner appear?
Peter 4:19	Wherefore let them also that suffer according to the will of God commit their souls in well-doing unto a faithful Creator.
Peter 5:1	The elders among you I exhort, who am a fellow-elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, who am also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed:
Peter 5:2	Tend the flock of God which is among you, exercising the oversight, not of constraint, but willingly, according to the will of God; nor yet for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind;
Peter 5:3	neither as lording it over the charge allotted to you, but making yourselves ensamples to the flock.
Peter 5:4	And when the chief Shepherd shall be manifested, ye shall receive the crown of glory that fadeth not away.
Peter 5:5	Likewise, ye younger, be subject unto the elder. Yea, all of you gird yourselves with humility, to serve one another: for God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble.
Peter 5:6	Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time;
Peter 5:7	casting all your anxiety upon him, because he careth for you.
Peter 5:8	Be sober, be watchful: your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour,
Peter 5:9	whom withstand stedfast in your faith, knowing that the same sufferings are accomplished in your brethren who are in the world.
Peter 5:10	And the God of all grace, who called you unto his eternal glory in Christ, after that ye have suffered a little while, shall himself perfect, establish, strengthen you.
Peter 5:11	To him be the dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Peter 5:12	By Silvanus, our faithful brother, as I account him , I have written unto you briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God. Stand ye fast therein.
Peter 5:13	She that is in Babylon, elect together with you , saluteth you; and'so doth Mark my son.
Peter 5:14	Salute one another with a kiss of love. Peace be unto you all that are in Christ.
John 1:1	That which was from the beginning, that which we have heard, that which we have seen with our eyes, that which we beheld, and our hands handled, concerning the Word of life
John 1:2	(and the life was manifested, and we have seen, and bear witness, and declare unto you the life, the eternal life , which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us);
John 1:3	that which we have seen and heard declare we unto you also, that ye also may have fellowship with us: yea, and our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ:
John 1:4	and these things we write, that our joy may be made full.
John 1:5	And this is the message which we have heard from him and announce unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.
John 1:6	If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in the darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:
John 1:7	but if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanseth us from all sin.
John 1:8	If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
John 1:9	If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
John 1:10	If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.
John 2:1	My little children, these things write I unto you that ye may not sin. And if any man sin, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous:
John 2:2	and he is the propitiation for our sins; and not for ours only, but also for the whole world.
John 2:3	And hereby we know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.
John 2:4	He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him;
John 2:5	but whoso keepeth his word, in him verily hath the love of God been perfected. Hereby we know that we are in him:
John 2:6	he that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk even as he walked.
John 2:7	Beloved, no new commandment write I unto you, but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning: the old commandment is the word which ye heard.
John 2:8	Again, a new commandment write I unto you, which thing is true in him and in you; because the darkness is passing away, and the true light already shineth.
John 2:9	He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother, is in the darkness even until now.
John 2:10	He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is no occasion of stumbling in him.
John 2:11	But he that hateth his brother is in the darkness, and walketh in the darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because the darkness hath blinded his eyes.
John 2:12	I write unto you, my little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake.
John 2:13	I write unto you, fathers, because ye know him who is from the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the evil one. I have written unto you, little children, because ye know the Father.
John 2:14	I have written unto you, fathers, because ye know him who is from the beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the evil one.
John 2:15	Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
John 2:16	For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the vain glory of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.
John 2:17	And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever.
John 2:18	Little children, it is the last hour: and as ye heard that antichrist cometh, even now have there arisen many antichrists; whereby we know that it is the last hour.
John 2:19	They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us: but they went out , that they might be made manifest that they all are not of us.
John 2:20	And ye have an anointing from the Holy One, and ye know all the things.
John 2:21	I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and because no lie is of the truth.
John 2:22	Who is the liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, even he that denieth the Father and the Son.
John 2:23	Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father: he that confesseth the Son hath the Father also.
John 2:24	As for you, let that abide in you which ye heard from the beginning. If that which ye heard from the beginning abide in you, ye also shall abide in the Son, and in the Father.
John 2:25	And this is the promise which he promised us, even the life eternal.
John 2:26	These things have I written unto you concerning them that would lead you astray.
John 2:27	And as for you, the anointing which ye received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any one teach you; but as his anointing teacheth you; concerning all things, and is true, and is no lie, and even as it taught you, ye abide in him.
John 2:28	And now, my little children, abide in him; that, if he shall be manifested, we may have boldness, and not be ashamed before him at his coming.
John 2:29	If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every one also that doeth righteousness is begotten of him.
John 3:1	Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God; and'such we are. For this cause the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not.
John 3:2	Beloved, now are we children of God, and it is not yet made manifest what we shall be. We know that, if he shall be manifested, we shall be like him; for we shall see him even as he is.
John 3:3	And every one that hath this hope'set on him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.
John 3:4	Every one that doeth sin doeth also lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness.
John 3:5	And ye know that he was manifested to take away sins; and in him is no sin.
John 3:6	Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither knoweth him.
John 3:7	My little children, let no man lead you astray: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous:
John 3:8	he that doeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. To this end was the Son of God manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.
John 3:9	Whosoever is begotten of God doeth no sin, because his seed abideth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is begotten of God.
John 3:10	In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother.
John 3:11	For this is the message which ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another:
John 3:12	not as Cain was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his works were evil, and his brother's righteous.
John 3:13	Marvel not, brethren, if the world hateth you.
John 3:14	We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not abideth in death.
John 3:15	Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
John 3:16	Hereby know we love, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
John 3:17	But whoso hath the world's goods, and beholdeth his brother in need, and shutteth up his compassion from him, how doth the love of God abide in him?
John 3:18	My Little children, let us not love in word, neither with the tongue; but in deed and truth.
John 3:19	Hereby shall we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our heart before him:
John 3:20	because if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things.
John 3:21	Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have boldness toward God;
John 3:22	and whatsoever we ask we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight.
John 3:23	And this is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, even as he gave us commandment.
John 3:24	And he that keepeth his commandments abideth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he gave us.
John 4:1	Beloved, believe not every spirit, but prove the spirits, whether they are of God; because many false prophets are gone out into the world.
John 4:2	Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God:
John 4:3	and every spirit that confesseth not Jesus is not of God: and this is the'spirit of the antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it cometh; and now it is in the world already.
John 4:4	Ye are of God, my little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world.
John 4:5	They are of the world: therefore speak they as of the world, and the world heareth them.
John 4:6	We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he who is not of God heareth us not. By this we know the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error.
John 4:7	Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is begotten of God, and knoweth God.
John 4:8	He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love.
John 4:9	Herein was the love of God manifested in us, that God hath sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him.
John 4:10	Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
John 4:11	Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
John 4:12	No man hath beheld God at any time: if we love one another, God abideth in us, and his love is perfected in us:
John 4:13	hereby we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit.
John 4:14	And we have beheld and bear witness that the Father hath sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world.
John 4:15	Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God abideth in him, and he in God.
John 4:16	And we know and have believed the love which God hath in us. God is love; and he that abideth in love abideth in God, and God abideth in him.
John 4:17	Herein is love made perfect with us, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment; because as he is, even so are we in this world.
John 4:18	There is no fear in love: but perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath punishment; and he that feareth is not made perfect in love.
John 4:19	We love, because he first loved us.
John 4:20	If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, cannot love God whom he hath not seen.
John 4:21	And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God love his brother also.
John 5:1	Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is begotten of God: and whosoever loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him.
John 5:2	Hereby we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and do his commandments.
John 5:3	For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments: and his commandments are not grievous.
John 5:4	For whatsoever is begotten of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that hath overcome the world, even our faith.
John 5:5	And who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God?
John 5:6	This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not with the water only, but with the water and with the blood.
John 5:7	And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is the truth.
John 5:8	For there are three who bear witness, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood: and the three agree in one.
John 5:9	If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater: for the witness of God is this, that he hath borne witness concerning his Son.
John 5:10	He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in him: he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he hath not believed in the witness that God hath borne concerning his Son.
John 5:11	And the witness is this, that God gave unto us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
John 5:12	He that hath the Son hath the life; he that hath not the Son of God hath not the life.
John 5:13	These things have I written unto you, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, even unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God.
John 5:14	And this is the boldness which we have toward him, that, if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us:
John 5:15	and if we know that he heareth us whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions which we have asked of him.
John 5:16	If any man see his brother sinning a sin not unto death, he shall ask, and God will give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death: not concerning this do I say that he should make request.
John 5:17	All unrighteousness is sin: and there is a sin not unto death.
John 5:18	We know that whosoever is begotten of God sinneth not; but he that was begotten of God keepeth himself, and the evil one toucheth him not.
John 5:19	We know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in the evil one.
John 5:20	And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding, that we know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal life.
John 5:21	My little children, guard yourselves from idols.
