Samuel 1:1	And it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag;
Samuel 1:2	it came to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head: and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and did obeisance.
Samuel 1:3	And David said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped.
Samuel 1:4	And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray thee, tell me. And he answered, The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also.
Samuel 1:5	And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?
Samuel 1:6	And the young man that told him said, As I happened by chance upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul was leaning upon his spear; and, lo, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him.
Samuel 1:7	And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called unto me. And I answered, Here am I.
Samuel 1:8	And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite.
Samuel 1:9	And he said unto me, Stand, I pray thee, beside me, and slay me; for anguish hath taken hold of me, because my life is yet whole in me.
Samuel 1:10	So I stood beside him, and slew him, because I was sure that he could not live after that he was fallen: and I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them hither unto my lord.
Samuel 1:11	Then David took hold on his clothes, and rent them; and likewise all the men that were with him:
Samuel 1:12	and they mourned, and wept, and fasted until even, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Jehovah, and for the house of Israel; because they were fallen by the sword.
Samuel 1:13	And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou? And he answered, I am the son of a sojourner, an Amalekite.
Samuel 1:14	And David said unto him, How wast thou not afraid to put forth thy hand to destroy Jehovah's anointed?
Samuel 1:15	And David called one of the young men, and said, Go near, and fall upon him. And he smote him, so that he died.
Samuel 1:16	And David said unto him, Thy blood be upon thy head; for thy mouth hath testified against thee, saying, I have slain Jehovah's anointed.
Samuel 1:17	And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son:
Samuel 1:18	(and he bade them teach the children of Judah the song of the bow: behold, it is written in the book of Jashar):
Samuel 1:19	Thy glory, O Israel, is slain upon thy high places! How are the mighty fallen!
Samuel 1:20	Tell it not in Gath, Publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon; Lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.
Samuel 1:21	Ye mountains of Gilboa, Let there be no dew nor rain upon you, neither fields of offerings: For there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, The shield of Saul, not anointed with oil.
Samuel 1:22	From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, The bow of Jonathan turned not back, And the sword of Saul returned not empty.
Samuel 1:23	Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, And in their death they were not divided: They were swifter than eagles, They were stronger than lions.
Samuel 1:24	Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, Who clothed you in scarlet delicately, Who put ornaments of gold upon your apparel.
Samuel 1:25	How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain upon thy high places.
Samuel 1:26	I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan: Very pleasant hast thou been unto me: Thy love to me was wonderful, Passing the love of women.
Samuel 1:27	How are the mighty fallen, And the weapons of war perished!
Samuel 2:1	And it came to pass after this, that David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? And Jehovah said unto him, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go up? And he said, Unto Hebron.
Samuel 2:2	So David went up thither, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
Samuel 2:3	And his men that were with him did David bring up, every man with his household: and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron.
Samuel 2:4	And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. And they told David, saying, The men of Jabesh-gilead were they that buried Saul.
Samuel 2:5	And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, and said unto them, Blessed be ye of Jehovah, that ye have showed this kindness unto your lord, even unto Saul, and have buried him.
Samuel 2:6	And now Jehovah show lovingkindness and truth unto you: and I also will requite you this kindness, because ye have done this thing.
Samuel 2:7	Now therefore let your hands be strong, and be ye valiant; for Saul your lord is dead, and also the house of Judah have anointed me king over them.
Samuel 2:8	Now Abner the son of Ner, captain of Saul's host, had taken Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanaim;
Samuel 2:9	and he made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel.
Samuel 2:10	Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David.
Samuel 2:11	And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months.
Samuel 2:12	And Abner the son of Ner, and the servants of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon.
Samuel 2:13	And Joab the son of Zeruiah, and the servants of David, went out, and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.
Samuel 2:14	And Abner said to Joab, Let the young men, I pray thee, arise and play before us. And Joab said, Let them arise.
Samuel 2:15	Then they arose and went over by number: twelve for Benjamin, and for Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David.
Samuel 2:16	And they caught every one his fellow by the head, and thrust his sword in his fellow's side; so they fell down together: wherefore that place was called Helkath-hazzurim, which is in Gibeon.
Samuel 2:17	And the battle was very sore that day: and Abner was beaten, and the men of Israel, before the servants of David.
Samuel 2:18	And the three sons of Zeruiah were there, Joab, and Abishai, and Asahel: and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe.
Samuel 2:19	And Asahel pursued after Abner; and in going he turned not to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner.
Samuel 2:20	Then Abner looked behind him, and said, Is it thou, Asahel? And he answered, It is I.
Samuel 2:21	And Abner said to him, Turn thee aside to thy right hand or to thy left, and lay thee hold on one of the young men, and take thee his armor. But Asahel would not turn aside from following him.
Samuel 2:22	And Abner said again to Asahel, Turn thee aside from following me: wherefore should I smite thee to the ground? how then should I hold up my face to Joab thy brother?
Samuel 2:23	Howbeit he refused to turn aside: wherefore Abner with the hinder end of the spear smote him in the body, so that the spear came out behind him; and he fell down there, and died in the same place: and it came to pass, that as many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still.
Samuel 2:24	But Joab and Abishai pursued after Abner: and the sun went down when they were come to the hill of Ammah, that lieth before Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon.
Samuel 2:25	And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner, and became one band, and stood on the top of a hill.
Samuel 2:26	Then Abner called to Joab, and said, Shall the sword devour for ever? knowest thou not that it will be bitterness in the latter end? how long shall it be then, ere thou bid the people return from following their brethren?
Samuel 2:27	And Joab said, As God liveth, if thou hadst not spoken, surely then in the morning the people had gone away, nor followed every one his brother.
Samuel 2:28	So Joab blew the trumpet; and all the people stood still, and pursued after Israel no more, neither fought they any more.
Samuel 2:29	And Abner and his men went all that night through the Arabah; and they passed over the Jordan, and went through all Bithron, and came to Mahanaim.
Samuel 2:30	And Joab returned from following Abner: and when he had gathered all the people together, there lacked of David's servants nineteen men and Asahel.
Samuel 2:31	But the servants of David had smitten of Benjamin, and of Abner's men,'so that three hundred and threescore men died.
Samuel 2:32	And they took up Asahel, and buried him in the sepulchre of his father, which was in Beth-lehem. And Joab and his men went all night, and the day brake upon them at Hebron.
Samuel 3:1	Now there was long war between the house of Saul and the house of David: and David waxed stronger and stronger, but the house of Saul waxed weaker and weaker.
Samuel 3:2	And unto David were sons born in Hebron: and his first-born was Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess;
Samuel 3:3	and his second, Chileab, of Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite; and the third, Absalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;
Samuel 3:4	and the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;
Samuel 3:5	and the sixth, Ithream, of Eglah, David's wife. These were born to David in Hebron.
Samuel 3:6	And it came to pass, while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David, that Abner made himself strong in the house of Saul.
Samuel 3:7	Now Saul had a concubine, whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah: and Ish-bosheth'said to Abner, Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine?
Samuel 3:8	Then was Abner very wroth for the words of Ish-bosheth, and said, Am I a dog's head that belongeth to Judah? This day do I show kindness unto the house of Saul thy father, to his brethren, and to his friends, and have not delivered thee into the hand of David; and yet thou chargest me this day with a fault concerning this woman.
Samuel 3:9	God do so to Abner, and more also, if, as Jehovah hath sworn to David, I do not even so to him;
Samuel 3:10	to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul, and to set up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan even to Beer-sheba.
Samuel 3:11	And he could not answer Abner another word, because he feared him.
Samuel 3:12	And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, Whose is the land? saying also , Make thy league with me, and, behold, my hand shall be with thee, to bring about all Israel unto thee.
Samuel 3:13	And he said, Well; I will make a league with thee; but one thing I require of thee: that is, thou shalt not see my face, except thou first bring Michal, Saul's daughter, when thou comest to see my face.
Samuel 3:14	And David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, saying, Deliver me my wife Michal, whom I betrothed to me for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines.
Samuel 3:15	And Ish-bosheth sent, and took her from her husband, even from Paltiel the son of Laish.
Samuel 3:16	And her husband went with her, weeping as he went, and followed her to Bahurim. Then said Abner unto him, Go, return: and he returned.
Samuel 3:17	And Abner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying, In times past ye sought for David to be king over you:
Samuel 3:18	now then do it; for Jehovah hath spoken of David, saying, By the hand of my servant David I will save my people Israel out of the hand of the Philistines, and out of the hand of all their enemies.
Samuel 3:19	And Abner also spake in the ears of Benjamin: and Abner went also to speak in the ears of David in Hebron all that seemed good to Israel, and to the whole house of Benjamin.
Samuel 3:20	So Abner came to David to Hebron, and twenty men with him. And David made Abner and the men that were with him a feast.
Samuel 3:21	And Abner said unto David, I will arise and go, and will gather all Israel unto my lord the king, that they may make a covenant with thee, and that thou mayest reign over all that thy soul desireth. And David sent Abner away; and he went in peace.
Samuel 3:22	And, behold, the servants of David and Joab came from a foray, and brought in a great spoil with them: but Abner was not with David in Hebron; for he had sent him away, and he was gone in peace.
Samuel 3:23	When Joab and all the host that was with him were come, they told Joab, saying, Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he hath sent him away, and he is gone in peace.
Samuel 3:24	Then Joab came to the king, and said, What hast thou done? behold, Abner came unto thee; why is it that thou hast sent him away, and he is quite gone?
Samuel 3:25	Thou knowest Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive thee, and to know thy going out and thy coming in, and to know all that thou doest.
Samuel 3:26	And when Joab was come out from David, he sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from the well of Sirah: but David knew it not.
Samuel 3:27	And when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the midst of the gate to speak with him quietly, and smote him there in the body, so that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother.
Samuel 3:28	And afterward, when David heard it, he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless before Jehovah for ever of the blood of Abner the son of Ner:
Samuel 3:29	let it fall upon the head of Joab, and upon all his father's house; and let there not fail from the house of Joab one that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth by the sword, or that lacketh bread.
Samuel 3:30	So Joab and Abishai his brother slew Abner, because he had killed their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle.
Samuel 3:31	And David said to Joab, and to all the people that were with him, Rend your clothes, and gird you with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. And king David followed the bier.
Samuel 3:32	And they buried Abner in Hebron: and the king lifted up his voice, and wept at the grave of Abner; and all the people wept.
Samuel 3:33	And the king lamented for Abner, and said, Should Abner die as a fool dieth?
Samuel 3:34	Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fetters: As a man falleth before the children of iniquity, so didst thou fall. And all the people wept again over him.
Samuel 3:35	And all the people came to cause David to eat bread while it was yet day; but David sware, saying, God do so to me, and more also, if I taste bread, or aught else, till the sun be down.
Samuel 3:36	And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them; as whatsoever the king did pleased all the people.
Samuel 3:37	So all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not of the king to slay Abner the son of Ner.
Samuel 3:38	And the king said unto his servants, Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man fallen this day in Israel?
Samuel 3:39	And I am this day weak, though anointed king; and these men the sons of Zeruiah are too hard for me: Jehovah reward the evil-doer according to his wickedness.
Samuel 4:1	And when Ish-bosheth , Saul's son, heard that Abner was dead in Hebron, his hands became feeble, and all the Israelites were troubled.
Samuel 4:2	And Ish-bosheth , Saul's son, had two men that were captains of bands: the name of the one was Baanah, and the name of the other Rechab, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, of the children of Benjamin (for Beeroth also is reckoned to Benjamin:
Samuel 4:3	and the Beerothites fled to Gittaim, and have been sojourners there until this day).
Samuel 4:4	Now Jonathan, Saul's son, had a son that was lame of his feet. He was five years old when the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel; and his nurse took him up, and fled: and it came to pass, as she made haste to flee, that he fell, and became lame. And his name was Mephibosheth.
Samuel 4:5	And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went, and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ish-bosheth, as he took his rest at noon.
Samuel 4:6	And they came thither into the midst of the house, as though they would have fetched wheat; and they smote him in the body: and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped.
Samuel 4:7	Now when they came into the house, as he lay on his bed in his bedchamber, they smote him, and slew him, and beheaded him, and took his head, and went by the way of the Arabah all night.
Samuel 4:8	And they brought the head of Ish-bosheth unto David to Hebron, and said to the king, Behold, the head of Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, thine enemy, who sought thy life; and Jehovah hath avenged my lord the king this day of Saul, and of his seed.
Samuel 4:9	And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said unto them, As Jehovah liveth, who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity,
Samuel 4:10	when one told me, saying, Behold, Saul is dead, thinking to have brought good tidings, I took hold of him, and slew him in Ziklag, which was the reward I gave him for his tidings.
Samuel 4:11	How much more, when wicked men have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed, shall I not now require his blood of your hand, and take you away from the earth?
Samuel 4:12	And David commanded his young men, and they slew them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged them up beside the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ish-bosheth, and buried it in the grave of Abner in Hebron.
Samuel 5:1	Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron, and spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.
Samuel 5:2	In times past, when Saul was king over us, it was thou that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and Jehovah said to thee, Thou shalt be shepherd of my people Israel, and thou shalt be prince over Israel.
Samuel 5:3	So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and king David made a covenant with them in Hebron before Jehovah: and they anointed David king over Israel.
Samuel 5:4	David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years.
Samuel 5:5	In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months; and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah.
Samuel 5:6	And the king and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, who spake unto David, saying, Except thou take away the blind and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither; thinking, David cannot come in hither.
Samuel 5:7	Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion; the same is the city of David.
Samuel 5:8	And David said on that day, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites, let him get up to the watercourse, and'smite the lame and the blind, that are hated of David's soul. Wherefore they say, There are the blind and the lame; he cannot come into the house.
Samuel 5:9	And David dwelt in the stronghold, and called it the city of David. And David built round about from Millo and inward.
Samuel 5:10	And David waxed greater and greater; for Jehovah, the God of hosts, was with him.
Samuel 5:11	And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar-trees, and carpenters, and masons; and they built David a house.
Samuel 5:12	And David perceived that Jehovah had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel's sake.
Samuel 5:13	And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem, after he was come from Hebron; and there were yet sons and daughters born to David.
Samuel 5:14	And these are the names of those that were born unto him in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon,
Samuel 5:15	and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
Samuel 5:16	and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet.
Samuel 5:17	And when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David; and David heard of it, and went down to the stronghold.
Samuel 5:18	Now the Philistines had come and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim.
Samuel 5:19	And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And Jehovah said unto David, Go up; for I will certainly deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Samuel 5:20	And David came to Baal-perazim, and David smote them there; and he said, Jehovah hath broken mine enemies before me, like the breach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place Baal-perazim.
Samuel 5:21	And they left their images there; and David and his men took them away.
Samuel 5:22	And the Philistines came up yet again, and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim.
Samuel 5:23	And when David inquired of Jehovah, he said, Thou shalt not go up: make a circuit behind them, and come upon them over against the mulberry-trees.
Samuel 5:24	And it shall be, when thou hearest the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry-trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself; for then is Jehovah gone out before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.
Samuel 5:25	And David did so, as Jehovah commanded him, and smote the Philistines from Geba until thou come to Gezer.
Samuel 6:1	And David again gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand.
Samuel 6:2	And David arose, and went with all the people that were with him, from Baale-judah, to bring up from thence the ark of God, which is called by the Name, even the name of Jehovah of hosts that sitteth above the cherubim.
Samuel 6:3	And they set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in the hill: and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart.
Samuel 6:4	And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was in the hill, with the ark of God: and Ahio went before the ark.
Samuel 6:5	And David and all the house of Israel played before Jehovah with all manner of instruments made of fir-wood, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with timbrels, and with castanets, and with cymbals.
Samuel 6:6	And when they came to the threshing-floor of Nacon, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God, and took hold of it; for the oxen stumbled.
Samuel 6:7	And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of God.
Samuel 6:8	And David was displeased, because Jehovah had broken forth upon Uzzah; and he called that place Perez-uzzah, unto this day.
Samuel 6:9	And David was afraid of Jehovah that day; and he said, How shall the ark of Jehovah come unto me?
Samuel 6:10	So David would not remove the ark of Jehovah unto him into the city of David; but David carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
Samuel 6:11	And the ark of Jehovah remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months: and Jehovah blessed Obed-edom, and all his house.
Samuel 6:12	And it was told king David, saying, Jehovah hath blessed the house of Obed-edom, and all that pertaineth unto him, because of the ark of God. And David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with joy.
Samuel 6:13	And it was so, that, when they that bare the ark of Jehovah had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fatling.
Samuel 6:14	And David danced before Jehovah with all his might; and David was girded with a linen ephod.
Samuel 6:15	So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of Jehovah with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet.
Samuel 6:16	And it was so, as the ark of Jehovah came into the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at the window, and saw king David leaping and dancing before Jehovah; and she despised him in her heart.
Samuel 6:17	And they brought in the ark of Jehovah, and set it in its place, in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
Samuel 6:18	And when David had made an end of offering the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Jehovah of hosts.
Samuel 6:19	And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, both to men and women, to every one a cake of bread, and a portion of flesh , and a cake of raisins. So all the people departed every one to his house.
Samuel 6:20	Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said, How glorious was the king of Israel to-day, who uncovered himself to-day in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself!
Samuel 6:21	And David said unto Michal, It was before Jehovah, who chose me above thy father, and above all his house, to appoint me prince over the people of Jehovah, over Israel: therefore will I play before Jehovah.
Samuel 6:22	And I will be yet more vile than this, and will be base in mine own sight: but of the handmaids of whom thou hast spoken, of them shall I be had in honor.
Samuel 6:23	And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day of her death.
Samuel 7:1	And it came to pass, when the king dwelt in his house, and Jehovah had given him rest from all his enemies round about,
Samuel 7:2	that the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains.
Samuel 7:3	And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thy heart; for Jehovah is with thee.
Samuel 7:4	And it came to pass the same night, that the word of Jehovah came unto Nathan, saying,
Samuel 7:5	Go and tell my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah, Shalt thou build me a house for me to dwell in?
Samuel 7:6	for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle.
Samuel 7:7	In all places wherein I have walked with all the children of Israel, spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, Why have ye not built me a house of cedar?
Samuel 7:8	Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be prince over my people, over Israel;
Samuel 7:9	and I have been with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will make thee a great name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the earth.
Samuel 7:10	And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first,
Samuel 7:11	and as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will cause thee to rest from all thine enemies. Moreover Jehovah telleth thee that Jehovah will make thee a house.
Samuel 7:12	When thy days are fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, that shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.
Samuel 7:13	He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever.
Samuel 7:14	I will be his father, and he shall be my son: if he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men;
Samuel 7:15	but my lovingkindness shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee.
Samuel 7:16	And thy house and thy kingdom shall be made sure for ever before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever.
Samuel 7:17	According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.
Samuel 7:18	Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Lord Jehovah, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far?
Samuel 7:19	And this was yet a small thing in thine eyes, O Lord Jehovah; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come; and this too after the manner of men, O Lord Jehovah!
Samuel 7:20	And what can David say more unto thee? for thou knowest thy servant, O Lord Jehovah.
Samuel 7:21	For thy word's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou wrought all this greatness, to make thy servant know it.
Samuel 7:22	Wherefore thou art great, O Jehovah God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
Samuel 7:23	And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem unto himself for a people, and to make him a name, and to do great things for you, and terrible things for thy land, before thy people, whom thou redeemest to thee out of Egypt, from the nations and their gods?
Samuel 7:24	And thou didst establish to thyself thy people Israel to be a people unto thee for ever; and thou, Jehovah, becamest their God.
Samuel 7:25	And now, O Jehovah God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, confirm thou it for ever, and do as thou hast spoken.
Samuel 7:26	And let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is God over Israel; and the house of thy servant David shall be established before thee.
Samuel 7:27	For thou, O Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee a house: therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee.
Samuel 7:28	And now, O Lord Jehovah, thou art God, and thy words are truth, and thou hast promised this good thing unto thy servant:
Samuel 7:29	now therefore let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee; for thou, O Lord Jehovah, hast spoken it: and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever.
Samuel 8:1	And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them: and David took the bridle of the mother city out of the hand of the Philistines.
Samuel 8:2	And he smote Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.
Samuel 8:3	David smote also Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion at the River.
Samuel 8:4	And David took from him a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots.
Samuel 8:5	And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadadezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.
Samuel 8:6	Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.
Samuel 8:7	And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
Samuel 8:8	And from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass.
Samuel 8:9	And when Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer,
Samuel 8:10	then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and smitten him: for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And Joram brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass:
Samuel 8:11	These also did king David dedicate unto Jehovah, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued;
Samuel 8:12	of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
Samuel 8:13	And David gat him a name when he returned from smiting the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, even eighteen thousand men.
Samuel 8:14	And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.
Samuel 8:15	And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness unto all his people.
Samuel 8:16	And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
Samuel 8:17	and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seraiah was scribe;
Samuel 8:18	and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were chief ministers.
Samuel 9:1	And David said, Is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake?
Samuel 9:2	And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba, and they called him unto David; and the king said unto him, Art thou Ziba? And he said, Thy servant is he.
Samuel 9:3	And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul, that I may show the kindness of God unto him? And Ziba said unto the king, Jonathan hath yet a son, who is lame of his feet.
Samuel 9:4	And the king said unto him, Where is he? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, in Lo-debar.
Samuel 9:5	Then king David sent, and fetched him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, from Lo-debar.
Samuel 9:6	And Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came unto David, and fell on his face, and did obeisance. And David said, Mephibosheth. And he answered, Behold, thy servant!
Samuel 9:7	And David said unto him, Fear not; for I will surely show thee kindness for Jonathan thy father's sake, and will restore thee all the land of Saul thy father; and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually.
Samuel 9:8	And he did obeisance, and said, What is thy servant, that thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am?
Samuel 9:9	Then the king called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said unto him, All that pertained to Saul and to all his house have I given unto thy master's son.
Samuel 9:10	And thou shalt till the land for him, thou, and thy sons, and thy servants; and thou shalt bring in the fruits , that thy master's son may have bread to eat: but Mephibosheth thy master's son shall eat bread alway at my table. Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.
Samuel 9:11	Then said Ziba unto the king, According to all that my lord the king commandeth his servant, so shall thy servant do. As for Mephibosheth,'said the king , he shall eat at my table, as one of the king's sons.
Samuel 9:12	And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Mica. And all that dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants unto Mephibosheth.
Samuel 9:13	So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem; for he did eat continually at the king's table. And he was lame in both his feet.
Samuel 10:1	And it came to pass after this, that the king of the children of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his stead.
Samuel 10:2	And David said, I will show kindness unto Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father showed kindness unto me. So David sent by his servants to comfort him concerning his father. And David's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon.
Samuel 10:3	But the princes of the children of Ammon said unto Hanun their lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father, in that he hath sent comforters unto thee? hath not David sent his servants unto thee to search the city, and to spy it out, and to overthrow it?
Samuel 10:4	So Hanun took David's servants, and shaved off the one half of their beards, and cut off their garments in the middle, even to their buttocks, and sent them away.
Samuel 10:5	When they told it unto David, he sent to meet them; for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then return.
Samuel 10:6	And when the children of Ammon saw that they were become odious to David, the children of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians of Beth-rehob, and the Syrians of Zobah, twenty thousand footmen, and the king of Maacah with a thousand men, and the men of Tob twelve thousand men.
Samuel 10:7	And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the mighty men.
Samuel 10:8	And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array at the entrance of the gate: and the Syrians of Zobah and of Rehob, and the men of Tob and Maacah, were by themselves in the field.
Samuel 10:9	Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians:
Samuel 10:10	And the rest of the people he committed into the hand of Abishai his brother; and he put them in array against the children of Ammon.
Samuel 10:11	And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou shalt help me; but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, then I will come and help thee.
Samuel 10:12	Be of good courage, and let us play the man for ou people, and for the cities of our God: and Jehovah do that which seemeth him good.
Samuel 10:13	So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh unto the battle against the Syrians: and they fled before him.
Samuel 10:14	And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled, they likewise fled before Abishai, and entered into the city. Then Joab returned from the children of Ammon, and came to Jerusalem.
Samuel 10:15	And when the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they gathered themselves together.
Samuel 10:16	And Hadarezer sent, and brought out the Syrians that were beyond the River: and they came to Helam, with Shobach the captain of the host of Hadarezer at their head.
Samuel 10:17	And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel together, and passed over the Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Syrians set themselves in array against David, and fought with him.
Samuel 10:18	And the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew of the Syrians the men of'seven hundred chariots, and forty thousand horsemen, and smote Shobach the captain of their host, so that he died there.
Samuel 10:19	And when all the kings that were servants to Hadarezer saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and served them. So the Syrians feared to help the children of Ammon any more.
Samuel 11:1	And it came to pass, at the return of the year, at the time when kings go out to battle , that David sent Joab, and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon, and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem.
Samuel 11:2	And it came to pass at eventide, that David arose from off his bed, and walked upon the roof of the king's house: and from the roof he saw a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful to look upon.
Samuel 11:3	And David send and inquired after the woman. And one said, Is not this Bath-sheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?
Samuel 11:4	And David sent messengers, and took her; and she came in unto him, and he lay with her (for she was purified from her uncleanness); and she returned unto her house.
Samuel 11:5	And the woman conceived; and she sent and told David, and said, I am with child.
Samuel 11:6	And David sent to Joab,'saying , Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David.
Samuel 11:7	And when Uriah was come unto him, David asked of him how Joab did, and how the people fared, and how the war prospered.
Samuel 11:8	And David said to Uriah, Go down to thy house, and wash thy feet. And Uriah departed out of the king's house, and there followed him a mess of food from the king.
Samuel 11:9	But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and went not down to his house.
Samuel 11:10	And when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down unto his house, David said unto Uriah, Art thou not come from a journey? wherefore didst thou not go down unto thy house?
Samuel 11:11	And Uriah said unto David, The ark, and Israel, and Judah, abide in booths; and my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open field; shall I then go into my house, to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? as thou livest, and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing.
Samuel 11:12	And David said to Uriah, Tarry here to-day also, and to-morrow I will let thee depart. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day, and the morrow.
Samuel 11:13	And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him; and he made him drunk: and at even he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord, but went not down to his house.
Samuel 11:14	And it came to pass in the morning, that David wrote a letter to Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah.
Samuel 11:15	And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him, that he may be smitten, and die.
Samuel 11:16	And it came to pass, when Joab kept watch upon the city, that he assigned Uriah unto the place where he knew that valiant men were.
Samuel 11:17	And the men of the city went out, and fought with Joab: and there fell some of the people, even of the servants of David; and Uriah the Hittite died also.
Samuel 11:18	Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war;
Samuel 11:19	and he charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast made an end of telling all the things concerning the war unto the king,
Samuel 11:20	it shall be that, if the king's wrath arise, and he say unto thee, Wherefore went ye so nigh unto the city to fight? knew ye not that they would shoot from the wall?
Samuel 11:21	who smote Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? did not a woman cast an upper millstone upon him from the wall, so that he died at Thebez? why went ye so nigh the wall? then shalt thou say, Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.
Samuel 11:22	So the messenger went, and came and showed David all that Joab had sent him for.
Samuel 11:23	And the messenger said unto David, The men prevailed against us, and came out unto us into the field, and we were upon them even unto the entrance of the gate.
Samuel 11:24	And the shooters shot at thy servants from off the wall; and some of the king's servants are dead, and thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.
Samuel 11:25	Then David said unto the messenger, Thus shalt thou say unto Joab, Let not this thing displease thee, for the sword devoureth one as well as another; make thy battle more strong against the city, and overthrow it: and encourage thou him.
Samuel 11:26	And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she made lamentation for her husband.
Samuel 11:27	And when the mourning was past, David sent and took her home to his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased Jehovah.
Samuel 12:1	And Jehovah sent Nathan unto David. And he came unto him, and said unto him, There were two men in one city; the one rich, and the other poor.
Samuel 12:2	The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds;
Samuel 12:3	but the poor man had nothing, save one little ewe lamb, which he had bought and nourished up: and it grew up together with him, and with his children; it did eat of his own morsel, and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was unto him as a daughter.
Samuel 12:4	And there came a traveller unto the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock and of his own herd, to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him, but took the poor man's lamb, and dressed it for the man that was come to him.
Samuel 12:5	And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man; and he said to Nathan, As Jehovah liveth, the man that hath done this is worthy to die:
Samuel 12:6	and he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity.
Samuel 12:7	And Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I anointed thee king over Israel, and I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul;
Samuel 12:8	and I gave thee thy master's house, and thy master's wives into thy bosom, and gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah; and if that had been too little, I would have added unto thee such and such things.
Samuel 12:9	Wherefore hast thou despised the word of Jehovah, to do that which is evil in his sight? thou hast smitten Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and hast taken his wife to be thy wife, and hast slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon.
Samuel 12:10	Now therefore the sword shall never depart from thy house, because thou hast despised me, and hast taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be thy wife.
Samuel 12:11	Thus saith Jehovah, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house; and I will take thy wives before thine eyes, and give them unto thy neighbor, and he shall lie with thy wives in the sight of this sun.
Samuel 12:12	For thou didst it secretly: but I will do this thing before all Israel, and before the sun.
Samuel 12:13	And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against Jehovah. And Nathan said unto David, Jehovah also hath put away thy sin; thou shalt not die.
Samuel 12:14	Howbeit, because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of Jehovah to blaspheme, the child also that is born unto thee shall surely die.
Samuel 12:15	And Nathan departed unto his house. And Jehovah struck the child that Uriah's wife bare unto David, and it was very sick.
Samuel 12:16	David therefore besought God for the child; and David fasted, and went in, and lay all night upon the earth.
Samuel 12:17	And the elders of his house arose, and stood beside him, to raise him up from the earth: but he would not, neither did he eat bread with them.
Samuel 12:18	And it came to pass on the seventh day, that the child died. And the servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead; for they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spake unto him, and he hearkened not unto our voice: how will he then vex himself, if we tell him that the child is dead!
Samuel 12:19	But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David perceived that the child was dead; and David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they said, He is dead.
Samuel 12:20	Then David arose from the earth, and washed, and anointed himself, and changed his apparel; and he came into the house of Jehovah, and worshipped: then he came to his own house; and when he required, they set bread before him, and he did eat.
Samuel 12:21	Then said his servants unto him, What thing is this that thou hast done? thou didst fast and weep for the child, while it was alive; but when the child was dead, thou didst rise and eat bread.
Samuel 12:22	And he said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept: for I said, Who knoweth whether Jehovah will not be gracious to me, that the child may live?
Samuel 12:23	But now he is dead, wherefore should I fast? can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me.
Samuel 12:24	And David comforted Bath-sheba his wife, and went in unto her, and lay with her: and she bare a son, and he called his name Solomon. And Jehovah loved him;
Samuel 12:25	and he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet; and he called his name Jedidiah, for Jehovah's sake.
Samuel 12:26	Now Joab fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and took the royal city.
Samuel 12:27	And Joab sent messengers to David, and said, I have fought against Rabbah; yea, I have taken the city of waters.
Samuel 12:28	Now therefore gather the rest of the people together, and encamp against the city, and take it; lest I take the city, and it be called after my name.
Samuel 12:29	And David gathered all the people together, and went to Rabbah, and fought against it, and took it.
Samuel 12:30	And he took the crown of their king from off his head; and the weight thereof was a talent of gold, and in it were precious stones; and it was set on David's head. And he brought forth the spoil of the city, exceeding much.
Samuel 12:31	And he brought forth the people that were therein, and put them under saws, and under harrows of iron, and under axes of iron, and made them pass through the brickkiln: and thus did he unto all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all the people returned unto Jerusalem.
Samuel 13:1	And it came to pass after this, that Absalom the son of David had a fair sister, whose name was Tamar; and Amnon the son of David loved her.
Samuel 13:2	And Amnon was so vexed that he fell sick because of his sister Tamar; for she was a virgin; and it seemed hard to Amnon to do anything unto her.
Samuel 13:3	But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother; and Jonadab was a very subtle man.
Samuel 13:4	And he said unto him, Why, O son of the king, art thou thus lean from day to day? wilt thou not tell me? And Amnon said unto him, I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister.
Samuel 13:5	And Jonadab said unto him, Lay thee down on thy bed, and feign thyself sick: and when thy father cometh to see thee, say unto him, Let my sister Tamar come, I pray thee, and give me bread to eat, and dress the food in my sight, that I may see it, and eat it from her hand.
Samuel 13:6	So Amnon lay down, and feigned himself sick: and when the king was come to see him, Amnon said unto the king, Let her sister Tamar come, I pray thee, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand.
Samuel 13:7	Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, Go now to thy brother Amnon's house, and dress him food.
Samuel 13:8	So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house; and he was laid down. And she took dough, and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and did bake the cakes.
Samuel 13:9	And she took the pan, and poured them out before him; but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, Have out all men from me. And they went out every man from him.
Samuel 13:10	And Amnon said unto Tamar, Bring the food into the chamber, that I may eat from thy hand. And Tamar took the cakes which she had made, and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother.
Samuel 13:11	And when she had brought them near unto him to eat, he took hold of her, and said unto her, Come, lie with me, my sister.
Samuel 13:12	And she answered him, Nay, my brother, do not force me; for no such thing ought to be done in Israel: do not thou this folly.
Samuel 13:13	And I, whither shall I carry my shame? and as for thee, thou wilt be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pray thee, speak unto the king; for he will not withhold me from thee.
Samuel 13:14	Howbeit he would not hearken unto her voice; but being stronger than she, he forced her, and lay with her.
Samuel 13:15	Then Amnon hated her with exceeding great hatred; for the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love wherewith he had loved her. And Amnon said unto her, Arise, be gone.
Samuel 13:16	And she said unto him, Not so, because this great wrong in putting me forth is worse than the other that thou didst unto me. But he would not hearken unto her.
Samuel 13:17	Then he called his servant that ministered unto him, and said, Put now this woman out from me, and bolt the door after her.
Samuel 13:18	And she had a garment of divers colors upon her; for with such robes were the king's daughters that were virgins apparelled. Then his servant brought her out, and bolted the door after her.
Samuel 13:19	And Tamar put ashes on her head, and rent her garment of divers colors that was on her; and she laid her hand on her head, and went her way, crying aloud as she went.
Samuel 13:20	And Absalom her brother said unto her, Hath Amnon thy brother been with thee? but now hold thy peace, my sister: he is thy brother; take not this thing to heart. So Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house.
Samuel 13:21	But when king David heard of all these things, he was very wroth.
Samuel 13:22	And Absalom spake unto Amnon neither good nor bad; for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar.
Samuel 13:23	And it came to pass after two full years, that Absalom had sheep-shearers in Baal-hazor, which is beside Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the king's sons.
Samuel 13:24	And Absalom came to the king, and said, Behold now, thy servant hath sheep-shearers; let the king, I pray thee, and his servants go with thy servant.
Samuel 13:25	And the king said to Absalom, Nay, my son, let us not all go, lest we be burdensome unto thee. And he pressed him: howbeit he would not go, but blessed him.
Samuel 13:26	Then said Absalom, If not, I pray thee, let my brother Amnon go with us. And the king said unto him, Why should he go with thee?
Samuel 13:27	But Absalom pressed him, and he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him.
Samuel 13:28	And Absalom commanded his servants, saying, Mark ye now, when Amnon's heart is merry with wine; and when I say unto you, Smite Amnon, then kill him; fear not; have not I commanded you? be courageous, and be valiant.
Samuel 13:29	And the servants of Absalom did unto Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons arose, and every man gat him up upon his mule, and fled.
Samuel 13:30	And it came to pass, while they were in the way, that the tidings came to David, saying, Absalom hath slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left.
Samuel 13:31	Then the king arose, and rent his garments, and lay on the earth; and all his servants stood by with their clothes rent.
Samuel 13:32	And Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother, answered and said, Let not my lord suppose that they have killed all the young men the king's sons; for Amnon only is dead; for by the appointment of Absalom this hath been determined from the day that he forced his sister Tamar.
Samuel 13:33	Now therefore let not my lord the king take the thing to his heart, to think that all the king's sons are dead; for Amnon only is dead.
Samuel 13:34	But Absalom fled. And the young man that kept the watch lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came much people by the way of the hill-side behind him.
Samuel 13:35	And Jonadab said unto the king, Behold, the king's sons are come: as thy servant said, so it is.
Samuel 13:36	And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of speaking, that, behold, the king's sons came, and lifted up their voice, and wept: and the king also and all his servants wept very sore.
Samuel 13:37	But Absalom fled, and went to Talmai the son of Ammihur, king of Geshur. And David mourned for his son every day.
Samuel 13:38	So Absalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three years.
Samuel 13:39	And the soul of king David longed to go forth unto Absalom: for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.
Samuel 14:1	Now Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king's heart was toward Absalom.
Samuel 14:2	And Joab sent to Tekoa, and fetched thence a wise woman, and said unto her, I pray thee, feign thyself to be a mourner, and put on mourning apparel, I pray thee, and anoint not thyself with oil, but be as a woman that hath a long time mourned for the dead:
Samuel 14:3	and go in to the king, and speak on this manner unto him. So Joab put the words in her mouth.
Samuel 14:4	And when the woman of Tekoa spake to the king, she fell on her face to the ground, and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king.
Samuel 14:5	And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, Of a truth I am a widow, and my husband is dead.
Samuel 14:6	And thy handmaid had two sons, and they two strove together in the field, and there was none to part them, but the one smote the other, and killed him.
Samuel 14:7	And, behold, the whole family is risen against thy handmaid, and they say, Deliver him that smote his brother, that we may kill him for the life of his brother whom he slew, and so destroy the heir also. Thus will they quench my coal which is left, and will leave to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the face of the earth.
Samuel 14:8	And the king said unto the woman, Go to thy house, and I will give charge concerning thee.
Samuel 14:9	And the woman of Tekoa said unto the king, My lord, O king, the iniquity be on me, and on my father's house; and the king and his throne be guiltless.
Samuel 14:10	And the king said, Whosoever saith aught unto thee, bring him to me, and he shall not touch thee any more.
Samuel 14:11	Then said she, I pray thee, let the king remember Jehovah thy God, that the avenger of blood destroy not any more, lest they destroy my son. And he said, As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth.
Samuel 14:12	Then the woman said, Let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak a word unto my lord the king. And he said, Say on.
Samuel 14:13	And the woman said, Wherefore then hast thou devised such a thing against the people of God? for in speaking this word the king is as one that is guilty, in that the king doth not fetch home again his banished one.
Samuel 14:14	For we must needs die, and are as water split on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again; neither doth God take away life, but deviseth means, that he that is banished be not an outcast from him.
Samuel 14:15	Now therefore seeing that I am come to speak this word unto my lord the king, it is because the people have made me afraid: and thy handmaid said, I will now speak unto the king; it may be that the king will perform the request of his servant.
Samuel 14:16	For the king will hear, to deliver his servant out of the hand of the man that would destroy me and my son together out of the inheritance of God.
Samuel 14:17	Then thy handmaid said, Let, I pray thee, the word of my lord the king be comfortable; for as an angel of God, so is my lord the king to discern good and bad: and Jehovah thy God be with thee.
Samuel 14:18	Then the king answered and said unto the woman, Hide not from me, I pray thee, aught that I shall ask thee. And the woman said, Let my lord the king now speak.
Samuel 14:19	And the king said, Is the hand of Joab with thee in all this? And the woman answered and said, As thy soul liveth, my lord the king, none can turn to the right hand or to the left from aught that my lord the king hath spoken; for thy servant Joab, he bade me, and he put all these words in the mouth of thy handmaid;
Samuel 14:20	to change the face of the matter hath thy servant Joab done this thing: and my lord is wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of God, to know all things that are in the earth.
Samuel 14:21	And the king said unto Joab, Behold now, I have done this thing: go therefore, bring the young man Absalom back.
Samuel 14:22	And Joab fell to the ground on his face, and did obeisance, and blessed the king: and Joab said, To-day thy servant knoweth that I have found favor in thy sight, my lord, O king, in that the king hath performed the request of his servant.
Samuel 14:23	So Joab arose and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.
Samuel 14:24	And the king said, Let him turn to his own house, but let him not see my face. So Absalom turned to his own house, and saw not the king's face.
Samuel 14:25	Now in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty: from the sole of his foot even to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him.
Samuel 14:26	And when he cut the hair of his head (now it was at every year's end that he cut it; because it was heavy on him, therefore he cut it); he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels, after the king's weight.
Samuel 14:27	And unto Absalom there were born three sons, and one daughter, whose name was Tamar: she was a woman of a fair countenance.
Samuel 14:28	And Absalom dwelt two full years in Jerusalem; and he saw not the king's face.
Samuel 14:29	Then Absalom sent for Joab, to send him to the king; but he would not come to him: and he sent again a second time, but he would not come.
Samuel 14:30	Therefore he said unto his servants, See, Joab's field is near mine, and he hath barley there; go and set it on fire. And Absalom's servants set the field on fire.
Samuel 14:31	Then Joab arose, and came to Absalom unto his house, and said unto him, Wherefore have thy servants set my field on fire?
Samuel 14:32	And Absalom answered Joab, Behold, I sent unto thee, saying, Come hither, that I may send thee to the king, to say, Wherefore am I come from Geshur? it were better for me to be there still. Now therefore let me see the king's face; and if there be iniquity in me, let him kill me.
Samuel 14:33	So Joab came to the king, and told him; and when he had called for Absalom, he came to the king, and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king: and the king kissed Absalom.
Samuel 15:1	And it came to pass after this, that Absalom prepared him a chariot and horses, and fifty men to run before him.
Samuel 15:2	And Absalom rose up early, and stood beside the way of the gate: and it was so, that, when any man had a suit which should come to the king for judgment, then Absalom called unto him, and said, Of what city art thou? And he said, Thy servant is of one of the tribes of Israel.
Samuel 15:3	And Absalom said unto him, See, thy matters are good and right; but there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee.
Samuel 15:4	Absalom said moreover, Oh that I were made judge in the land, that every man who hath any suit or cause might come unto me, and I would do him justice!
Samuel 15:5	And it was so, that, when any man came nigh to do him obeisance, he put forth his hand, and took hold of him, and kissed him.
Samuel 15:6	And on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment: so Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel.
Samuel 15:7	And it came to pass at the end of forty years, that Absalom said unto the king, I pray thee, let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed unto Jehovah, in Hebron.
Samuel 15:8	For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode at Geshur in Syria, saying, If Jehovah shall indeed bring me again to Jerusalem, then I will serve Jehovah.
Samuel 15:9	And the king said unto him, Go in peace. So he arose, and went to Hebron.
Samuel 15:10	But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then ye shall say, Absalom is king in Hebron.
Samuel 15:11	And with Absalom went two hundred men out of Jerusalem, that were invited, and went in their simplicity; and they knew not anything.
Samuel 15:12	And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David's counsellor, from his city, even from Giloh, while he was offering the sacrifices. And the conspiracy was strong; for the people increased continually with Absalom.
Samuel 15:13	And there came a messenger to David, saying, The hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom.
Samuel 15:14	And David said unto all his servants that were with him at Jerusalem, Arise, and let us flee; for else none of us shall escape from Absalom: make speed to depart, lest he overtake us quickly, and bring down evil upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword.
Samuel 15:15	And the king's servants said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall choose.
Samuel 15:16	And the king went forth, and all his household after him. And the king left ten women, that were concubines, to keep the house.
Samuel 15:17	And the king went forth, and all the people after him; and they tarried in Beth-merhak.
Samuel 15:18	And all his servants passed on beside him; and all the Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men that came after him from Gath, passed on before the king.
Samuel 15:19	Then said the king to Ittai the Gittite, Wherefore goest thou also with us? return, and abide with the king: for thou art a foreigner, and also an exile; return to thine own place.
Samuel 15:20	Whereas thou camest but yesterday, should I this day make thee go up and down with us, seeing I go whither I may? return thou, and take back thy brethren; mercy and truth be with thee.
Samuel 15:21	And Ittai answered the king, and said, As Jehovah liveth, and as my lord the king liveth, surely in what place my lord the king shall be, whether for death or for life, even there also will thy servant be.
Samuel 15:22	And David said to Ittai, Go and pass over. And Ittai the Gittite passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones that were with him.
Samuel 15:23	And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over: the king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness.
Samuel 15:24	And, lo, Zadok also came , and all the Levites with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of God; and they set down the ark of God; and Abiathar went up, until all the people had done passing out of the city.
Samuel 15:25	And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God into the city: if I shall find favor in the eyes of Jehovah, he will bring me again, and show me both it, and his habitation:
Samuel 15:26	but if he say thus, I have no delight in thee; behold, here am I, let him do to me as seemeth good unto him.
Samuel 15:27	The king said also unto Zadok the priest, Art thou not a seer? return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz thy son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar.
Samuel 15:28	See, I will tarry at the fords of the wilderness, until there come word from you to certify me.
Samuel 15:29	Zadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem: and they abode there.
Samuel 15:30	And David went up by the ascent of the mount of Olives, and wept as he went up; and he had his head covered, and went barefoot: and all the people that were with him covered every man his head, and they went up, weeping as they went up.
Samuel 15:31	And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. And David said, O Jehovah, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness.
Samuel 15:32	And it came to pass, that, when David was come to the top of the ascent , where God was worshipped, behold, Hushai the Archite came to meet him with his coat rent, and earth upon his head.
Samuel 15:33	And David said unto him, If thou passest on with me, then thou wilt be a burden unto me:
Samuel 15:34	but if thou return to the city, and say unto Absalom, I will be thy servant, O king; as I have been thy father's servant in time past, so will I now be thy servant; then wilt thou defeat for me the counsel of Ahithophel.
Samuel 15:35	And hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abiathar the priests? therefore it shall be, that what thing soever thou shalt hear out of the king's house, thou shalt tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests.
Samuel 15:36	Behold, they have there with them their two sons, Ahimaaz, Zadok's son, and Jonathan, Abiathar's son; and by them ye shall send unto me everything that ye shall hear.
Samuel 15:37	So Hushai, David's friend, came into the city; and Absalom came into Jerusalem.
Samuel 16:1	And when David was a little past the top of the ascent , behold, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him, with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and a hundred of summer fruits, and a bottle of wine.
Samuel 16:2	And the king said unto Ziba, What meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, The asses are for the king's household to ride on; and the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat; and the wine, that such as are faint in the wilderness may drink.
Samuel 16:3	And the king said, And where is thy master's son? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he abideth at Jerusalem; for he said, To-day will the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father.
Samuel 16:4	Then said the king to Ziba, Behold, thine is all that pertaineth unto Mephibosheth. And Ziba said, I do obeisance; let me find favor in thy sight, my lord, O king.
Samuel 16:5	And when king David came to Bahurim, behold, there came out thence a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera; he came out, and cursed still as he came.
Samuel 16:6	And he cast stones at David, and at all the servants of king David: and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left.
Samuel 16:7	And thus said Shimei when he cursed, Begone, begone, thou man of blood, and base fellow:
Samuel 16:8	Jehovah hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned; and Jehovah hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son; and, behold, thou art taken in thine own mischief, because thou art a man of blood.
Samuel 16:9	Then said Abishai the son of Zeruiah unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head.
Samuel 16:10	And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah? Because he curseth, and because Jehovah hath said unto him, Curse David; who then shall say, Wherefore hast thou done so?
Samuel 16:11	And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, who came forth from my bowels, seeketh my life: how much more may this Benjamite now do it ? let him alone, and let him curse; for Jehovah hath bidden him.
Samuel 16:12	It may be that Jehovah will look on the wrong done unto me, and that Jehovah will requite me good for his cursing of me this day.
Samuel 16:13	So David and his men went by the way; and Shimei went along on the hill-side over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust.
Samuel 16:14	And the king, and all the people that were with him, came weary; and he refreshed himself there.
Samuel 16:15	And Absalom, and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him.
Samuel 16:16	And it came to pass, when Hushai the Archite, David's friend, was come unto Absalom, that Hushai said unto Absalom, Long live the king, Long live the king.
Samuel 16:17	And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? why wentest thou not with thy friend?
Samuel 16:18	And Hushai said unto Absalom, Nay; but whom Jehovah, and this people, and all the men of Israel have chosen, his will I be, and with him will I abide.
Samuel 16:19	And again, whom should I serve?'should I not'serve in the presence of his son? as I have served in thy father's presence, so will I be in thy presence.
Samuel 16:20	Then said Absalom to Ahithophel, Give your counsel what we shall do.
Samuel 16:21	And Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Go in unto thy father's concubines, that he hath left to keep the house; and all Israel will hear that thou art abhorred of thy father: then will the hands of all that are with thee be strong.
Samuel 16:22	So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house; and Absalom went in unto his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel.
Samuel 16:23	And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he gave in those days, was as if a man inquired at the oracle of God: so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.
Samuel 17:1	Moreover Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this night:
Samuel 17:2	and I will come upon him while he is weary and weak-handed, and will make him afraid; and all the people that are with him shall flee; and I will smite the king only;
Samuel 17:3	and I will bring back all the people unto thee: the man whom thou seekest is as if all returned:'so all the people shall be in peace.
Samuel 17:4	And the saying pleased Absalom well, and all the elders of Israel.
Samuel 17:5	Then said Absalom, Call now Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear likewise what he saith.
Samuel 17:6	And when Hushai was come to Absalom, Absalom spake unto him, saying, Ahithophel hath spoken after this manner: shall we do after his saying? if not, speak thou.
Samuel 17:7	And Hushai said unto Absalom, The counsel that Ahithophel hath given this time is not good.
Samuel 17:8	Hushai said moreover, Thou knowest thy father and his men, that they are mighty men, and they are chafed in their minds, as a bear robbed of her whelps in the field; and thy father is a man of war, and will not lodge with the people.
Samuel 17:9	Behold, he is hid now in some pit, or in some other place: and it will come to pass, when some of them are fallen at the first, that whosoever heareth it will say, There is a slaughter among the people that follow Absalom.
Samuel 17:10	And even he that is valiant, whose heart is as the heart of a lion, will utterly melt; for all Israel knoweth that thy father is a mighty man, and they that are with him are valiant men.
Samuel 17:11	But I counsel that all Israel be gathered together unto thee, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, as the sand that is by the sea for multitude; and that thou go to battle in thine own person.
Samuel 17:12	So shall we come upon him in some place where he shall be found, and we will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground; and of him and of all the men that are with him we will not leave so much as one.
Samuel 17:13	Moreover, if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city, and we will draw it into the river, until there be not one small stone found there.
Samuel 17:14	And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel. For Jehovah had ordained to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the intent that Jehovah might bring evil upon Absalom.
Samuel 17:15	Then said Hushai unto Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, Thus and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom and the elders of Israel; and thus and thus have I counselled.
Samuel 17:16	Now therefore send quickly, and tell David, saying, Lodge not this night at the fords of the wilderness, but by all means pass over; lest the king be swallowed up, and all the people that are with him.
Samuel 17:17	Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying by En-rogel; and a maid-servant used to go and tell them; and they went and told king David: for they might not be seen to come into the city.
Samuel 17:18	But a lad saw them, and told Absalom: and they went both of them away quickly, and came to the house of a man in Bahurim, who had a well in his court; and they went down thither.
Samuel 17:19	And the woman took and spread the covering over the well's mouth, and strewed bruised grain thereon; and nothing was known.
Samuel 17:20	And Absalom's servants came to the woman to the house; and they said, Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan? And the woman said unto them, They are gone over the brook of water. And when they had sought and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem.
Samuel 17:21	And it came to pass, after they were departed, that they came up out of the well, and went and told king David; and they said unto David, Arise ye, and pass quickly over the water; for thus hath Ahithophel counselled against you.
Samuel 17:22	Then David arose, and all the people that were with him, and they passed over the Jordan: by the morning light there lacked not one of them that was not gone over the Jordan.
Samuel 17:23	And when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his ass, and arose, and gat him home, unto his city, and set his house in order, and hanged himself; and he died, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father.
Samuel 17:24	Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom passed over the Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him.
Samuel 17:25	And Absalom set Amasa over the host instead of Joab. Now Amasa was the son of a man, whose name was Ithra the Israelite, that went in to Abigal the daughter of Nahash, sister to Zeruiah, Joab's mother.
Samuel 17:26	And Israel and Absalom encamped in the land of Gilead.
Samuel 17:27	And it came to pass, when David was come to Mahanaim, that Shobi the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and Machir the son of Ammiel of Lodebar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim,
Samuel 17:28	brought beds, and basins, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and barley, and meal, and parched grain , and beans, and lentils, and parched pulse ,
Samuel 17:29	and honey, and butter, and sheep, and cheese of the herd, for David, and for the people that were with him, to eat: for they said, The people are hungry, and weary, and thirsty, in the wilderness.
Samuel 18:1	And David numbered the people that were with him, and set captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them.
Samuel 18:2	And David sent forth the people, a third part under the hand of Joab, and a third part under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, and a third part under the hand of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said unto the people, I will surely go forth with you myself also.
Samuel 18:3	But the people said, Thou shalt not go forth: for if we flee away, they will not care for us; neither if half of us die, will they care for us: but thou art worth ten thousand of us; therefore now it is better that thou be ready to succor us out of the city.
Samuel 18:4	And the king said unto them, What seemeth you best I will do. And the king stood by the gate-side, and all the people went out by hundreds and by thousands.
Samuel 18:5	And the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Deal gently for my sake with the young man, even with Absalom. And all the people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning Absalom.
Samuel 18:6	So the people went out into the field against Israel: and the battle was in the forest of Ephraim.
Samuel 18:7	And the people of Israel were smitten there before the servants of David, and there was a great slaughter there that day of twenty thousand men.
Samuel 18:8	For the battle was there spread over the face of all the country; and the forest devoured more people that day than the sword devoured.
Samuel 18:9	And Absalom chanced to meet the servants of David. And Absalom was riding upon his mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between heaven and earth; and the mule that was under him went on.
Samuel 18:10	And a certain man saw it, and told Joab, and said, Behold, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak.
Samuel 18:11	And Joab said unto the man that told him, And, behold, thou sawest it, and why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? and I would have given thee ten pieces of'silver, and a girdle.
Samuel 18:12	And the man said unto Joab, Though I should receive a thousand pieces of'silver in my hand, yet would I not put forth my hand against the king's son; for in our hearing the king charged thee and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Beware that none touch the young man Absalom.
Samuel 18:13	Otherwise if I had dealt falsely against his life (and there is no matter hid from the king), then thou thyself wouldest have set thyself against me .
Samuel 18:14	Then said Joab, I may not tarry thus with thee. And he took three darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom, while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak.
Samuel 18:15	And ten young men that bare Joab's armor compassed about and smote Absalom, and slew him.
Samuel 18:16	And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing after Israel; for Joab held back the people.
Samuel 18:17	And they took Absalom, and cast him into the great pit in the forest, and raised over him a very great heap of stones: and all Israel fled every one to his tent.
Samuel 18:18	Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for himself the pillar, which is in the king's dale; for he said, I have no son to keep my name in remembrance: and he called the pillar after his own name; and it is called Absalom's monument, unto this day.
Samuel 18:19	Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok, Let me now run, and bear the king tidings, how that Jehovah hath avenged him of his enemies.
Samuel 18:20	And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not be the bearer of tidings this day, but thou shalt bear tidings another day; but this day thou shalt bear no tidings, because the king's son is dead.
Samuel 18:21	Then said Joab to the Cushite, Go, tell the king what thou hast seen. And the Cushite bowed himself unto Joab, and ran.
Samuel 18:22	Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again to Joab, But come what may, let me, I pray thee, also run after the Cushite. And Joab said, Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing that thou wilt have no reward for the tidings?
Samuel 18:23	But come what may,'said he , I will run. And he said unto him, Run. Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the Plain, and outran the Cushite.
Samuel 18:24	Now David was sitting between the two gates: and the watchman went up to the roof of the gate unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, a man running alone.
Samuel 18:25	And the watchman cried, and told the king. And the king said, If he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. And he came apace, and drew near.
Samuel 18:26	And the watchman saw another man running; and the watchman called unto the porter, and said, Behold, another man running alone. And the king said, He also bringeth tidings.
Samuel 18:27	And the watchman said, I think the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok. And the king said, He is a good man, and cometh with good tidings.
Samuel 18:28	And Ahimaaz called, and said unto the king, All is well. And he bowed himself before the king with his face to the earth, and said, Blessed be Jehovah thy God, who hath delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against my lord the king.
Samuel 18:29	And the king said, Is it well with the young man Absalom? And Ahimaaz answered, When Joab sent the king's servant, even me thy servant, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was.
Samuel 18:30	And the king said, Turn aside, and stand here. And he turned aside, and stood still.
Samuel 18:31	And, behold, the Cushite came; and the Cushite said, Tidings for my lord the king; for Jehovah hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee.
Samuel 18:32	And the king said unto the Cushite, Is it well with the young man Absalom? And the Cushite answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all that rise up against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is.
Samuel 18:33	And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! would I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son!
Samuel 19:1	And it was told Joab, Behold, the king weepeth and mourneth for Absalom.
Samuel 19:2	And the victory that day was turned into mourning unto all the people; for the people heard say that day, The king grieveth for his son.
Samuel 19:3	And the people gat them by stealth that day into the city, as people that are ashamed steal away when they flee in battle.
Samuel 19:4	And the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!
Samuel 19:5	And Joab came into the house to the king, and said, Thou hast shamed this day the faces of all thy servants, who this day have saved thy life, and the lives of thy sons and of thy daughters, and the lives of thy wives, and the lives of thy concubines;
Samuel 19:6	in that thou lovest them that hate thee, and hatest them that love thee. For thou hast declared this day, that princes and servants are nought unto thee: for this day I perceive, that if Absalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it had pleased thee well.
Samuel 19:7	Now therefore arise, go forth, and speak comfortably unto thy servants; for I swear by Jehovah, if thou go not forth, there will not tarry a man with thee this night: and that will be worse unto thee than all the evil that hath befallen thee from thy youth until now.
Samuel 19:8	Then the king arose, and sat in the gate. And they told unto all the people, saying, Behold, the king is sitting in the gate: and all the people came before the king. Now Israel had fled every man to his tent.
Samuel 19:9	And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king delivered us out of the hand of our enemies, and he saved us out of the hand of the Philistines; and now he is fled out of the land from Absalom.
Samuel 19:10	And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore why speak ye not a word of bringing the king back?
Samuel 19:11	And king David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, Speak unto the elders of Judah, saying, Why are ye the last to bring the king back to his house? seeing the speech of all Israel is come to the king, to bring him to his house.
Samuel 19:12	Ye are my brethren, ye are my bone and my flesh: wherefore then are ye the last to bring back the king?
Samuel 19:13	And say ye to Amasa, Art thou not my bone and my flesh? God do so to me, and more also, if thou be not captain of the host before me continually in the room of Joab.
Samuel 19:14	And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the heart of one man; so that they sent unto the king,'saying , Return thou, and all thy servants.
Samuel 19:15	So the king returned, and came to the Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgal, to go to meet the king, to bring the king over the Jordan.
Samuel 19:16	And Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite, who was of Bahurim, hasted and came down with the men of Judah to meet king David.
Samuel 19:17	And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty servants with him; and they went through the Jordan in the presence of the king.
Samuel 19:18	And there went over a ferry-boat to bring over the king's household, and to do what he thought good. And Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the king, when he was come over the Jordan.
Samuel 19:19	And he said unto the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity unto me, neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely the day that my lord the king went out of Jerusalem, that the king should take it to his heart.
Samuel 19:20	For thy servant doth know that I have sinned: therefore, behold, I am come this day the first of all the house of Joseph to go down to meet my lord the king.
Samuel 19:21	But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered and said, Shall not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed Jehovah's anointed?
Samuel 19:22	And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah, that ye should this day be adversaries unto me? shall there any man be put to death this day in Israel? for do not I know that I am this day king over Israel?
Samuel 19:23	And the king said unto Shimei, Thou shalt not die. And the king sware unto him.
Samuel 19:24	And Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king; and he had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came home in peace.
Samuel 19:25	And it came to pass, when he was come to Jerusalem to meet the king, that the king said unto him, Wherefore wentest not thou with me, Mephibosheth?
Samuel 19:26	And he answered, My lord, O king, my servant deceived me: for thy servant said, I will saddle me an ass, that I may ride thereon, and go with the king; because thy servant is lame.
Samuel 19:27	And he hath slandered thy servant unto my lord the king; but my lord the king is as an angel of God: do therefore what is good in thine eyes.
Samuel 19:28	For all my father's house were but dead men before my lord the king; yet didst thou set thy servant among them that did eat at thine own table. What right therefore have I yet that I should cry any more unto the king?
Samuel 19:29	And the king said unto him, Why speakest thou any more of thy matters? I say, Thou and Ziba divide the land.
Samuel 19:30	And Mephibosheth said unto the king, yea, let him take all, forasmuch as my lord the king is come in peace unto his own house.
Samuel 19:31	And Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim; and he went over the Jordan with the king, to conduct him over the Jordan.
Samuel 19:32	Now Barzillai was a very aged man, even fourscore years old: and he had provided the king with sustenance while he lay at Mahanaim; for he was a very great man.
Samuel 19:33	And the king said unto Barzillai, Come thou over with me, and I will sustain thee with me in Jerusalem.
Samuel 19:34	And Barzillai said unto the king, How many are the days of the years of my life, that I should go up with the king unto Jerusalem?
Samuel 19:35	I am this day fourscore years old: can I discern between good and bad? can thy servant taste what I eat or what I drink? can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? wherefore then should thy servant be yet a burden unto my lord the king?
Samuel 19:36	Thy servant would but just go over the Jordan with the king: and why should the king recompense it me with such a reward?
Samuel 19:37	Let thy servant, I pray thee, turn back again, that I may die in mine own city, by the grave of my father and my mother. But behold, thy servant Chimham; let him go over with my lord the king; and do to him what shall seem good unto thee.
Samuel 19:38	And the king answered, Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him that which shall seem good unto thee: and whatsoever thou shalt require of me, that will I do for thee.
Samuel 19:39	And all the people went over the Jordan, and the king went over: and the king kissed Barzillai, and blessed him; and he returned unto his own place.
Samuel 19:40	So the king went over to Gilgal, and Chimham went over with him: and all the people of Judah brought the king over, and also half the people of Israel.
Samuel 19:41	And, behold, all the men of Israel came to the king, and said unto the king, Why have our brethren the men of Judah stolen thee away, and brought the king, and his household, over the Jordan, and all David's men with him?
Samuel 19:42	And all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, Because the king is near of kin to us: wherefore then are ye angry for this matter? have we eaten at all at the king's cost? or hath he given us any gift?
Samuel 19:43	And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, and said, We have ten parts in the king, and we have also more right in David than ye: why then did ye despise us, that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our king? And the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.
Samuel 20:1	And there happened to be there a base fellow, whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite: and he blew the trumpet, and said, We have no portion in David, neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: every man to his tents, O Israel.
Samuel 20:2	So all the men of Israel went up from following David, and followed Sheba the son of Bichri; but the men of Judah clave unto their king, from the Jordan even to Jerusalem.
Samuel 20:3	And David came to his house at Jerusalem; and the king took the ten women his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put them in ward, and provided them with sustenance, but went not in unto them. So they were shut up unto the day of their death, living in widowhood.
Samuel 20:4	Then said the king to Amasa, Call me the men of Judah together within three days, and be thou here present.
Samuel 20:5	So Amasa went to call the men of Judah together; but he tarried longer than the set time which he had appointed him.
Samuel 20:6	And David said to Abishai, Now will Sheba the son of Bichri do us more harm than did Absalom: take thou thy lord's servants, and pursue after him, lest he get him fortified cities, and escape out of our sight.
Samuel 20:7	And there went out after him Joab's men, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and all the mighty men; and they went out of Jerusalem, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.
Samuel 20:8	When they were at the great stone which is in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. And Joab was girded with his apparel of war that he had put on, and thereon was a girdle with a sword fastened upon his loins in the sheath thereof; and as he went forth it fell out.
Samuel 20:9	And Joab said to Amasa, Is it well with thee, my brother? And Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him.
Samuel 20:10	But Amasa took no heed to the sword that was in Joab's hand: so he smote him therewith in the body, and shed out his bowels to the ground, and struck him not again; and he died. And Joab and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba the son of Bichri.
Samuel 20:11	And there stood by him one of Joab's young men, and said, He that favoreth Joab, and he that is for David, let him follow Joab.
Samuel 20:12	And Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the midst of the highway. And when the man saw that all the people stood still, he carried Amasa out of the highway into the field, and cast a garment over him, when he saw that every one that came by him stood still.
Samuel 20:13	When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on after Joab, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.
Samuel 20:14	And he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel, and to Beth-maacah, and all the Berites: and they were gathered together, and went also after him.
Samuel 20:15	And they came and besieged him in Abel of Beth-maacah, and they cast up a mound against the city, and it stood against the rampart; and all the people that were with Joab battered the wall, to throw it down.
Samuel 20:16	Then cried a wise woman out of the city, Hear, hear; say, I pray you, unto Joab, Come near hither, that I may speak with thee.
Samuel 20:17	And he came near unto her; and the woman said, Art thou Joab? And he answered, I am. Then she said unto him, Hear the words of thy handmaid. And he answered, I do hear.
Samuel 20:18	Then she spake, saying, They were wont to speak in old time, saying, They shall surely ask counsel at Abel: and so they ended the matter .
Samuel 20:19	I am of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel: thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel: why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of Jehovah?
Samuel 20:20	And Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or destroy.
Samuel 20:21	The matter is not so: but a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, Sheba the son of Bichri by name, hath lifted up his hand against the king, even against David; deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. And the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall.
Samuel 20:22	Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom. And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri, and threw it out to Joab. And he blew the trumpet, and they were dispersed from the city, every man to his tent. And Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king.
Samuel 20:23	Now Joab was over all the host of Israel; and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and over the Pelethites;
Samuel 20:24	and Adoram was over the men subject to taskwork; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder;
Samuel 20:25	and Sheva was scribe; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
Samuel 20:26	and also Ira the Jairite was chief minister unto David.
Samuel 21:1	And there was a famine in the days of David three years, year after year; and David sought the face of Jehovah. And Jehovah said, It is for Saul, and for his bloody house, because he put to death the Gibeonites.
Samuel 21:2	And the king called the Gibeonites, and said unto them (now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites; and the children of Israel had sworn unto them: and Saul sought to slay them in his zeal for the children of Israel and Judah);
Samuel 21:3	and David said unto the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? and wherewith shall I make atonement, that ye may bless the inheritance of Jehovah?
Samuel 21:4	And the Gibeonites said unto him, It is no matter of silver or gold between us and Saul, or his house; neither is it for us to put any man to death in Israel. And he said, What ye shall say, that will I do for you.
Samuel 21:5	And they said unto the king, The man that consumed us, and that devised against us, that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the borders of Israel,
Samuel 21:6	let seven men of his sons be delivered unto us, and we will hang them up unto Jehovah in Gibeah of Saul, the chosen of Jehovah. And the king said, I will give them.
Samuel 21:7	But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, because of Jehovah's oath that was between them, between David and Jonathan the son of Saul.
Samuel 21:8	But the king took the two sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, whom she bare unto Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth; and the five sons of Michal the daughter of Saul, whom she bare to Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite:
Samuel 21:9	And he delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the mountain before Jehovah, and they fell all'seven together. And they were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days, at the beginning of barley harvest.
Samuel 21:10	And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth, and spread it for her upon the rock, from the beginning of harvest until water was poured upon them from heaven; and she suffered neither the birds of the heavens to rest on them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night.
Samuel 21:11	And it was told David what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done.
Samuel 21:12	And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from the men of Jabesh-gilead, who had stolen them from the street of Beth-shan, where the Philistines had hanged them, in the day that the Philistines slew Saul in Gilboa;
Samuel 21:13	and he brought up from thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son: and they gathered the bones of them that were hanged.
Samuel 21:14	And they buried the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son in the country of Benjamin in Zela, in the sepulchre of Kish his father: and they performed all that the king commanded. And after that God was entreated for the land.
Samuel 21:15	And the Philistines had war again with Israel; and David went down, and his servants with him, and fought against the Philistines. And David waxed faint;
Samuel 21:16	and Ishbibenob, who was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear was three hundred'shekels of brass in weight, he being girded with a new'sword , thought to have slain David.
Samuel 21:17	But Abishai the son of Zeruiah succored him, and smote the Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David sware unto him, saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench not the lamp of Israel.
Samuel 21:18	And it came to pass after this, that there was again war with the Philistines at Gob: then Sibbecai the Hushathite slew Saph, who was of the sons of the giant.
Samuel 21:19	And there was again war with the Philistines at Gob; and Elhanan the son of Jaareoregim the Beth-lehemite slew Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.
Samuel 21:20	And there was again war at Gath, where was a man of great stature, that had on every hand six fingers, and on every foot six toes, four and twenty in number; and he also was born to the giant.
Samuel 21:21	And when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimei, David's brother, slew him.
Samuel 21:22	These four were born to the giant in Gath; and they fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants.
Samuel 22:1	And David spake unto Jehovah the words of this song in the day that Jehovah delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul:
Samuel 22:2	and he said, Jehovah is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer, even mine;
Samuel 22:3	God, my rock, in him will I take refuge; My shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, and my refuge; My saviour, thou savest me from violence.
Samuel 22:4	I will call upon Jehovah, who is worthy to be praised: So shall I be saved from mine enemies.
Samuel 22:5	For the waves of death compassed me; The floods of ungodliness made me afraid:
Samuel 22:6	The cords of Sheol were round about me; The snares of death came upon me.
Samuel 22:7	In my distress I called upon Jehovah; Yea, I called unto my God: And he heard my voice out of his temple, And my cry came into his ears.
Samuel 22:8	Then the earth shook and trembled, The foundations of heaven quaked And were shaken, because he was wroth.
Samuel 22:9	There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, And fire out of his mouth devoured: Coals were kindled by it.
Samuel 22:10	He bowed the heavens also, and came down; And thick darkness was under his feet.
Samuel 22:11	And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly; Yea, he was seen upon the wings of the wind.
Samuel 22:12	And he made darkness pavilions round about him, Gathering of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
Samuel 22:13	At the brightness before him Coals of fire were kindled.
Samuel 22:14	Jehovah thundered from heaven, And the Most High uttered his voice.
Samuel 22:15	And he sent out arrows, and scattered them; Lightning, and discomfited them.
Samuel 22:16	Then the channels of the sea appeared, The foundations of the world were laid bare, By the rebuke of Jehovah, At the blast of the breath of his nostrils.
Samuel 22:17	He sent from on high, he took me; He drew me out of many waters;
Samuel 22:18	He delivered me from my strong enemy, From them that hated me; for they were too mighty for me.
Samuel 22:19	They came upon me in the day of my calamity; But Jehovah was my stay.
Samuel 22:20	He brought me forth also into a large place; He delivered me, because he delighted in me.
Samuel 22:21	Jehovah rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.
Samuel 22:22	For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, And have not wickedly departed from my God.
Samuel 22:23	For all his ordinances were before me; And as for his statutes, I did not depart from them.
Samuel 22:24	I was also perfect toward him; And I kept myself from mine iniquity.
Samuel 22:25	Therefore hath Jehovah recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to my cleanness in his eyesight.
Samuel 22:26	With the merciful thou wilt show thyself merciful; With the perfect man thou wilt show thyself perfect;
Samuel 22:27	With the pure thou wilt show thyself pure; And with the perverse thou wilt show thyself froward.
Samuel 22:28	And the afflicted people thou wilt save; But thine eyes are upon the haughty, that thou mayest bring them down.
Samuel 22:29	For thou art my lamp, O Jehovah; And Jehovah will lighten my darkness.
Samuel 22:30	For by thee I run upon a troop; By my God do I leap over a wall.
Samuel 22:31	As for God, his way is perfect: The word of Jehovah is tried; He is a shield unto all them that take refuge in him.
Samuel 22:32	For who is God, save Jehovah? And who is a rock, save our God?
Samuel 22:33	God is my strong fortress; And he guideth the perfect in his way.
Samuel 22:34	He maketh his feet like hinds  feet , And setteth me upon my high places.
Samuel 22:35	He teacheth my hands to war, So that mine arms do bend a bow of brass.
Samuel 22:36	Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation; And thy gentleness hath made me great.
Samuel 22:37	Thou hast enlarged my steps under me; And my feet have not slipped.
Samuel 22:38	I have pursued mine enemies, and destroyed them; Neither did I turn again till they were consumed.
Samuel 22:39	And I have consumed them, and smitten them through, so that they cannot arise: Yea, they are fallen under my feet.
Samuel 22:40	For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle; Thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me.
Samuel 22:41	Thou hast also made mine enemies turn their backs unto me, That I might cut off them that hate me.
Samuel 22:42	They looked, but there was none to save; Even unto Jehovah, but he answered them not.
Samuel 22:43	Then did I beat them small as the dust of the earth, I did crush them as the mire of the streets, and did spread them abroad.
Samuel 22:44	Thou also hast delivered me from the strivings of my people; Thou hast kept me to be the head of the nations: A people whom I have not known shall serve me.
Samuel 22:45	The foreigners shall submit themselves unto me: As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me.
Samuel 22:46	The foreigners shall fade away, And shall come trembling out of their close places.
Samuel 22:47	Jehovah liveth; And blessed be my rock; And exalted be God, the rock of my salvation,
Samuel 22:48	Even the God that executeth vengeance for me, And that bringeth down peoples under me,
Samuel 22:49	And that bringeth me forth from mine enemies: Yea, thou liftest me up above them that rise up against me; Thou deliverest me from the violent man.
Samuel 22:50	Therefore I will give thanks unto thee, O Jehovah, among the nations, And will sing praises unto thy name.
Samuel 22:51	Great deliverance giveth he to his king, And showeth lovingkindness to his anointed, To David and to his seed, for evermore.
Samuel 23:1	Now these are the last words of David. David the son of Jesse saith, And the man who was raised on high saith, The anointed of the God of Jacob, And the sweet psalmist of Israel:
Samuel 23:2	The Spirit of Jehovah spake by me, And his word was upon my tongue.
Samuel 23:3	The God of Israel said, The Rock of Israel spake to me: One that ruleth over men righteously, That ruleth in the fear of God,
Samuel 23:4	He shall be as the light of the morning, when the sun riseth, A morning without clouds, When the tender grass'springeth out of the earth, Through clear shining after rain.
Samuel 23:5	Verily my house is not so with God; Yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant, Ordered in all things, and sure: For it is all my salvation, and all my desire, Although he maketh it not to grow.
Samuel 23:6	But the ungodly shall be all of them as thorns to be thrust away, Because they cannot be taken with the hand;
Samuel 23:7	But the man that toucheth them Must be armed with iron and the staff of a spear: And they shall be utterly burned with fire in their place.
Samuel 23:8	These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: Josheb-basshebeth a Tahchemonite, chief of the captains; the same was Adino the Eznite, against eight hundred slain at one time.
Samuel 23:9	And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodai the son of an Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines that were there gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were gone away.
Samuel 23:10	He arose, and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword; and Jehovah wrought a great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to take spoil.
Samuel 23:11	And after him was Shammah the son of Agee a Hararite. And the Philistines were gathered together into a troop, where was a plot of ground full of lentils; and the people fled from the Philistines.
Samuel 23:12	But he stood in the midst of the plot, and defended it, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah wrought a great victory.
Samuel 23:13	And three of the thirty chief men went down, and came to David in the harvest time unto the cave of Adullam; and the troop of the Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim.
Samuel 23:14	And David was then in the stronghold; and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem.
Samuel 23:15	And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me water to drink of the well of Beth-lehem, which is by the gate!
Samuel 23:16	And the three mighty men brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David: but he would not drink thereof, but poured it out unto Jehovah.
Samuel 23:17	And he said, Be it far from me, O Jehovah, that I should do this:'shall I drink the blood of the men that went in jeopardy of their lives? therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.
Samuel 23:18	And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of the three. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them, and had a name among the three.
Samuel 23:19	Was he not most honorable of the three? therefore he was made their captain: howbeit he attained not unto the first three.
Samuel 23:20	And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, he slew the two'sons of Ariel of Moab: he went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow.
Samuel 23:21	And he slew an Egyptian, a goodly man: and the Egyptian had a spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear.
Samuel 23:22	These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had a name among the three mighty men.
Samuel 23:23	He was more honorable than the thirty, but he attained not to the first three. And David set him over his guard.
Samuel 23:24	Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beth-lehem,
Samuel 23:25	Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite,
Samuel 23:26	Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
Samuel 23:27	Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,
Samuel 23:28	Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,
Samuel 23:29	Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin,
Samuel 23:30	Benaiah a Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash.
Samuel 23:31	Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,
Samuel 23:32	Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,
Samuel 23:33	Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite,
Samuel 23:34	Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maacathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,
Samuel 23:35	Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite,
Samuel 23:36	Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,
Samuel 23:37	Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, armorbearers to Joab the son of Zeruiah,
Samuel 23:38	Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
Samuel 23:39	Uriah the Hittite: thirty and seven in all.
Samuel 24:1	And again the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them, saying, Go, number Israel and Judah.
Samuel 24:2	And the king said to Joab the captain of the host, who was with him, Go now to and fro through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and number ye the people, that I may know the sum of the people.
Samuel 24:3	And Joab said unto the king, Now Jehovah thy God add unto the people, how many soever they may be, a hundredfold; and may the eyes of my lord the king see it: but why doth my lord the king delight in this thing?
Samuel 24:4	Notwithstanding, the king's word prevailed against Joab, and against the captains of the host. And Joab and the captains of the host went out from the presence of the king, to number the people of Israel.
Samuel 24:5	And they passed over the Jordan, and encamped in Aroer, on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad, and unto Jazer:
Samuel 24:6	then they came to Gilead, and to the land of Tahtim-hodshi; and they came to Dan-jaan, and round about to Sidon,
Samuel 24:7	and came to the stronghold of Tyre, and to all the cities of the Hivites, and of the Canaanites; and they went out to the south of Judah, at Beer-sheba.
Samuel 24:8	So when they had gone to and from through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days.
Samuel 24:9	And Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the people unto the king: and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men that drew the sword; and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men.
Samuel 24:10	And David's heart smote him after that he had numbered the people. And David said unto Jehovah, I have sinned greatly in that which I have done: but now, O Jehovah, put away, I beseech thee, the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly.
Samuel 24:11	And when David rose up in the morning, the word of Jehovah came unto the prophet Gad, David's seer, saying,
Samuel 24:12	Go and speak unto David, Thus saith Jehovah, I offer thee three things: choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee.
Samuel 24:13	So Gad came to David, and told him, and said unto him, Shall seven years of famine come unto thee in thy land? or wilt thou flee three months before thy foes while they pursue thee? or shall there be three days pestilence in thy land? now advise thee, and consider what answer I shall return to him that sent me.
Samuel 24:14	And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let us fall now into the hand of Jehovah; for his mercies are great; and let me not fall into the hand of man.
Samuel 24:15	So Jehovah sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even to the time appointed; and there died of the people from Dan even to Beer-sheba seventy thousand men.
Samuel 24:16	And when the angel stretched out his hand toward Jerusalem to destroy it, Jehovah repented him of the evil, and said to the angel that destroyed the people, It is enough; now stay thy hand. And the angel of Jehovah was by the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
Samuel 24:17	And David spake unto Jehovah when he saw the angel that smote the people, and said, Lo, I have sinned, and I have done perversely; but these sheep, what have they done? let thy hand, I pray thee, be against me, and against my father's house.
Samuel 24:18	And Gad came that day to David, and said unto him, Go up, rear an altar unto Jehovah in the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
Samuel 24:19	And David went up according to the saying of Gad, as Jehovah commanded.
Samuel 24:20	And Araunah looked forth, and saw the king and his servants coming on toward him: and Araunah went out, and bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground.
Samuel 24:21	And Araunah said, Wherefore is my lord the king come to his servant? And David said, To buy the threshing-floor of thee, to build an altar unto Jehovah, that the plague may be stayed from the people.
Samuel 24:22	And Araunah said unto David, Let my lord the king take and offer up what seemeth good unto him: behold, the oxen for the burnt-offering, and the threshing instruments and the yokes of the oxen for the wood:
Samuel 24:23	all this, O king, doth Araunah give unto the king. And Araunah said unto the king, Jehovah thy God accept thee.
Samuel 24:24	And the king said unto Araunah, Nay; but I will verily buy it of thee at a price. Neither will I offer burnt-offerings unto Jehovah my God which cost me nothing. So David bought the threshing-floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.
Samuel 24:25	And David built there an altar unto Jehovah, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings. So Jehovah was entreated for the land, and the plague was stayed from Israel.
Kings 1:1	And Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab.
Kings 1:2	And Ahaziah fell down through the lattice in his upper chamber that was in Samaria, and was sick: and he sent messengers, and said unto them, Go, inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, whether I shall recover of this sickness.
Kings 1:3	But the angel of Jehovah said to Elijah the Tishbite, Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say unto them, Is it because there is no God in Israel, that ye go to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron?
Kings 1:4	Now therefore thus saith Jehovah, Thou shalt not come down from the bed whither thou art gone up, but shalt surely die. And Elijah departed.
Kings 1:5	And the messengers returned unto him, and he said unto them, Why is it that ye are returned?
Kings 1:6	And they said unto him, There came up a man to meet us, and said unto us, Go, turn again unto the king that sent you, and say unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Is it because there is no God in Israel, that thou sendest to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron? therefore thou shalt not come down from the bed whither thou art gone up, but shalt surely die.
Kings 1:7	And he said unto them, What manner of man was he that came up to meet you, and told you these words?
Kings 1:8	And they answered him, He was a hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his loins. And he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite.
Kings 1:9	Then the king'sent unto him a captain of fifty with his fifty. And he went up to him: and, behold, he was sitting on the top of the hill. And he spake unto him, O man of God, the king hath said, Come down.
Kings 1:10	And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, If I be a man of God, let fire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty. And there came down fire from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty.
Kings 1:11	And again he sent unto him another captain of fifty and his fifty. And he answered and said unto him, O man of God, thus hath the king said, Come down quickly.
Kings 1:12	And Elijah answered and said unto them, If I be a man of God, let fire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty. And the fire of God came down from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty.
Kings 1:13	And again he sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up, and came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and besought him, and said unto him, O man of God, I pray thee, let my life, and the life of these fifty thy servants, be precious in thy sight.
Kings 1:14	Behold, there came fire down from heaven, and consumed the two former captains of fifty with their fifties; but now let my life be precious in thy sight.
Kings 1:15	And the angel of Jehovah said unto Elijah, Go down with him: be not afraid of him. And he arose, and went down with him unto the king.
Kings 1:16	And he said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Forasmuch as thou hast sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, is it because there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word? therefore thou shalt not come down from the bed whither thou art gone up, but shalt surely die.
Kings 1:17	So he died according to the word of Jehovah which Elijah had spoken. And Jehoram began to reign in his stead in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah; because he had no son.
Kings 1:18	Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 2:1	And it came to pass, when Jehovah would take up Elijah by a whirlwind into heaven, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal.
Kings 2:2	And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee; for Jehovah hath sent me as far as Beth-el. And Elisha said, As Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Beth-el.
Kings 2:3	And the sons of the prophets that were at Beth-el came forth to Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that Jehovah will take away thy master from thy head to-day? And he said, Yea, I know it; hold ye your peace.
Kings 2:4	And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee; for Jehovah hath sent me to Jericho. And he said, As Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho.
Kings 2:5	And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came near to Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that Jehovah will take away thy master from thy head to-day? And he answered, Yea, I know it; hold ye your peace.
Kings 2:6	And Elijah said unto him, Tarry here, I pray thee; for Jehovah hath sent me to the Jordan. And he said, As Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And they two went on.
Kings 2:7	And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went, and stood over against them afar off: and they two stood by the Jordan.
Kings 2:8	And Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and smote the waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so that they two went over on dry ground.
Kings 2:9	And it came to pass, when they were gone over, that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee, before I am taken from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me.
Kings 2:10	And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing: nevertheless , if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee; but if not, it shall not be so.
Kings 2:11	And it came to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, which parted them both asunder; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
Kings 2:12	And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and the horsemen thereof! And he saw him no more: and he took hold of his own clothes, and rent them in two pieces.
Kings 2:13	He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the bank of the Jordan.
Kings 2:14	And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and smote the waters, and said, Where is Jehovah, the God of Elijah? and when he also had smitten the waters, they were divided hither and thither; and Elisha went over.
Kings 2:15	And when the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho over against him saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And they came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him.
Kings 2:16	And they said unto him, Behold now, there are with thy servants fifty strong men; let them go, we pray thee, and seek thy master, lest the Spirit of Jehovah hath taken him up, and cast him upon some mountain, or into some valley. And he said, Ye shall not send.
Kings 2:17	And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. They sent therefore fifty men; and they sought three days, but found him not.
Kings 2:18	And they came back to him, while he tarried at Jericho; and he said unto them, Did I not say unto you, Go not?
Kings 2:19	And the men of the city said unto Elisha, Behold, we pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord seeth: but the water is bad, and the land miscarrieth.
Kings 2:20	And he said, Bring me a new cruse, and put salt therein. And they brought it to him.
Kings 2:21	And he went forth unto the spring of the waters, and cast salt therein, and said, Thus saith Jehovah, I have healed these waters; there shall not be from thence any more death or miscarrying.
Kings 2:22	So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the word of Elisha which he spake.
Kings 2:23	And he went up from thence unto Beth-el; and as he was going up by the way, there came forth young lads out of the city, and mocked him, and said unto him, Go up, thou baldhead; go up, thou baldhead.
Kings 2:24	And he looked behind him and saw them, and cursed them in the name of Jehovah. And there came forth two she-bears out of the wood, and tare forty and two lads of them.
Kings 2:25	And he went from thence to mount Carmel, and from thence he returned to Samaria.
Kings 3:1	Now Jehoram the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned twelve years.
Kings 3:2	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, but not like his father, and like his mother; for he put away the pillar of Baal that his father had made.
Kings 3:3	Nevertheless he cleaved unto the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin; he departed not therefrom.
Kings 3:4	Now Mesha king of Moab was a sheep-master; and he rendered unto the king of Israel the wool of a hundred thousand lambs, and of a hundred thousand rams.
Kings 3:5	But it came to pass, when Ahab was dead, that the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel.
Kings 3:6	And king Jehoram went out of Samaria at that time, and mustered all Israel.
Kings 3:7	And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, saying, The king of Moab hath rebelled against me: wilt thou go with me against Moab to battle? And he said, I will go up: I am as thou art, my people as thy people, my horses as thy horses.
Kings 3:8	And he said, Which way shall we go up? And he answered, The way of the wilderness of Edom.
Kings 3:9	So the king of Israel went, and the king of Judah, and the king of Edom; and they made a circuit of seven days journey: and there was no water for the host, nor for the beasts that followed them.
Kings 3:10	And the king of Israel said, Alas! for Jehovah hath called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab.
Kings 3:11	But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of Jehovah, that we may inquire of Jehovah by him? And one of the king of Israel's servants answered and said, Elisha the son of Shaphat is here, who poured water on the hands of Elijah.
Kings 3:12	And Jehoshaphat said, The word of Jehovah is with him. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him.
Kings 3:13	And Elisha said unto the king of Israel, What have I to do with thee? get thee to the prophets of thy father, and to the prophets of thy mother. And the king of Israel said unto him, Nay; for Jehovah hath called these three kings together to deliver them into the hand of Moab.
Kings 3:14	And Elisha said, As Jehovah of hosts liveth, before whom I stand, surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, I would not look toward thee, nor see thee.
Kings 3:15	But now bring me a minstrel. And it came to pass, when the minstrel played, that the hand of Jehovah came upon him.
Kings 3:16	And he said, Thus saith Jehovah, Make this valley full of trenches.
Kings 3:17	For thus saith Jehovah, Ye shall not see wind, neither shall ye see rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, and ye shall drink, both ye and your cattle and your beasts.
Kings 3:18	And this is but a light thing in the sight of Jehovah: he will also deliver the Moabites into your hand.
Kings 3:19	And ye shall smite every fortified city, and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree, and stop all fountains of water, and mar every good piece of land with stones.
Kings 3:20	And it came to pass in the morning, about the time of offering the oblation, that, behold, there came water by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water.
Kings 3:21	Now when all the Moabites heard that the kings were come up to fight against them, they gathered themselves together, all that were able to put on armor, and upward, and stood on the border.
Kings 3:22	And they rose up early in the morning, and the sun shone upon the water, and the Moabites saw the water over against them as red as blood:
Kings 3:23	and they said, This is blood; the kings are surely destroyed, and they have smitten each man his fellow: now therefore, Moab, to the spoil.
Kings 3:24	And when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose up and smote the Moabites, so that they fled before them; and they went forward into the land smiting the Moabites.
Kings 3:25	And they beat down the cities; and on every good piece of land they cast every man his stone, and filled it; and they stopped all the fountains of water, and felled all the good trees, until in Kir-hareseth only they left the stones thereof; howbeit the slingers went about it, and smote it.
Kings 3:26	And when the king of Moab saw that the battle was too sore for him, he took with him seven hundred men that drew sword, to break through unto the king of Edom; but they could not.
Kings 3:27	Then he took his eldest son that should have reigned in his stead, and offered him for a burnt-offering upon the wall. And there was great wrath against Israel: and they departed from him, and returned to their own land.
Kings 4:1	Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying, Thy servant my husband is dead; and thou knowest that thy servant did fear Jehovah: and the creditor is come to take unto him my two children to be bondmen.
Kings 4:2	And Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? tell me; what hast thou in the house? And she said, Thy handmaid hath not anything in the house, save a pot of oil.
Kings 4:3	Then he said, Go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels; borrow not a few.
Kings 4:4	And thou shalt go in, and shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons, and pour out into all those vessels; and thou shalt set aside that which is full.
Kings 4:5	So she went from him, and shut the door upon her and upon her sons; they brought the vessels to her, and she poured out.
Kings 4:6	And it came to pass, when the vessels were full, that she said unto her son, Bring me yet a vessel. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more. And the oil stayed.
Kings 4:7	Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go, sell the oil, and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy sons of the rest.
Kings 4:8	And it fell on a day, that Elisha passed to Shunem, where was a great woman; and she constrained him to eat bread. And so it was, that as oft as he passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread.
Kings 4:9	And she said unto her husband, Behold now, I perceive that this is a holy man of God, that passeth by us continually.
Kings 4:10	Let us make, I pray thee, a little chamber on the wall; and let us set for him there a bed, and a table, and a seat, and a candlestick: and it shall be, when he cometh to us, that he shall turn in thither.
Kings 4:11	And it fell on a day, that he came thither, and he turned into the chamber and lay there.
Kings 4:12	And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite. And when he had called her, she stood before him.
Kings 4:13	And he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care; what is to be done for thee? wouldest thou be spoken for to the king, or to the captain of the host? And she answered, I dwell among mine own people.
Kings 4:14	And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazi answered, Verily she hath no son, and her husband is old.
Kings 4:15	And he said, Call her. And when he had called her, she stood in the door.
Kings 4:16	And he said, At this season, when the time cometh round, thou shalt embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thy handmaid.
Kings 4:17	And the woman conceived, and bare a son at that season, when the time came round, as Elisha had said unto her.
Kings 4:18	And when the child was grown, it fell on a day, that he went out to his father to the reapers.
Kings 4:19	And he said unto his father, My head, my head. And he said to his servant, Carry him to his mother.
Kings 4:20	And when he had taken him, and brought him to his mother, he sat on her knees till noon, and then died.
Kings 4:21	And she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and shut the door upon him, and went out.
Kings 4:22	And she called unto her husband, and said, Send me, I pray thee, one of the servants, and one of the asses, that I may run to the man of God, and come again.
Kings 4:23	And he said, Wherefore wilt thou go to him to-day? it is neither new moon nor sabbath. And she said, It shall be well.
Kings 4:24	Then she saddled an ass, and said to her servant, Drive, and go forward; slacken me not the riding, except I bid thee.
Kings 4:25	So she went, and came unto the man of God to mount Carmel. And it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, that he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is the Shunammite:
Kings 4:26	run, I pray thee, now to meet her, and say unto her, Is it well with thee? is it well with thy husband? is it well with the child? And she answered, It is well.
Kings 4:27	And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught hold of his feet. And Gehazi came near to thrust her away; but the man of God said, Let her alone: for her soul is vexed within her; and Jehovah hath hid it from me, and hath not told me.
Kings 4:28	Then she said, Did I desire a son of my lord? did I not say, Do not deceive me?
Kings 4:29	Then he said to Gehazi, Gird up thy loins, and take my staff in thy hand, and go thy way: if thou meet any man, salute him not; and if any salute thee, answer him not again: and lay my staff upon the face of the child.
Kings 4:30	And the mother of the child said, As Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And he arose, and followed her.
Kings 4:31	And Gehazi passed on before them, and laid the staff upon the face of the child; but there was neither voice, nor hearing. Wherefore he returned to meet him, and told him, saying, The child is not awaked.
Kings 4:32	And when Elisha was come into the house, behold, the child was dead, and laid upon his bed.
Kings 4:33	He went in therefore, and shut the door upon them twain, and prayed unto Jehovah.
Kings 4:34	And he went up, and lay upon the child, and put his mouth upon his mouth, and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands: and he stretched himself upon him; and the flesh of the child waxed warm.
Kings 4:35	Then he returned, and walked in the house once to and fro; and went up, and stretched himself upon him: and the child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes.
Kings 4:36	And he called Gehazi, and said, Call this Shunammite. So he called her. And when she was come in unto him, he said, Take up thy son.
Kings 4:37	Then she went in, and fell at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground; and she took up her son, and went out.
Kings 4:38	And Elisha came again to Gilgal. And there was a dearth in the land; and the sons of the prophets were sitting before him; and he said unto his servant, Set on the great pot, and boil pottage for the sons of the prophets.
Kings 4:39	And one went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wild vine, and gathered thereof wild gourds his lap full, and came and shred them into the pot of pottage; for they knew them not.
Kings 4:40	So they poured out for the men to eat. And it came to pass, as they were eating of the pottage, that they cried out, and said, O man of God, there is death in the pot. And they could not eat thereof.
Kings 4:41	But he said, Then bring meal. And he cast it into the pot; and he said, Pour out for the people, that they may eat. And there was no harm in the pot.
Kings 4:42	And there came a man from Baal-shalishah, and brought the man of God bread of the first-fruits, twenty loaves of barley, and fresh ears of grain in his sack. And he said, Give unto the people, that they may eat.
Kings 4:43	And his servant said, What, should I set this before a hundred men? But he said, Give the people, that they may eat; for thus saith Jehovah, They shall eat, and shall leave thereof.
Kings 4:44	So he set it before them, and they did eat, and left thereof, according to the word of Jehovah.
Kings 5:1	Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master, and honorable, because by him Jehovah had given victory unto Syria: he was also a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper.
Kings 5:2	And the Syrians had gone out in bands, and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maiden; and she waited on Naaman's wife.
Kings 5:3	And she said unto her mistress, Would that my lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria! then would he recover him of his leprosy.
Kings 5:4	And one went in, and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus said the maiden that is of the land of Israel.
Kings 5:5	And the king of Syria said, Go now, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. And he departed, and took with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of raiment.
Kings 5:6	And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, And now when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have sent Naaman my servant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy.
Kings 5:7	And it came to pass, when the king of Israel had read the letter, that he rent his clothes, and said, Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man doth send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? but consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me.
Kings 5:8	And it was so, when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had rent his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.
Kings 5:9	So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariots, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha.
Kings 5:10	And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean.
Kings 5:11	But Naaman was wroth, and went away, and said, Behold, I thought, He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of Jehovah his God, and wave his hand over the place, and recover the leper.
Kings 5:12	Are not Abanah and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? may I not wash in them, and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage.
Kings 5:13	And his servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? how much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be clean?
Kings 5:14	Then went he down, and dipped himself'seven times in the Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God; and his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.
Kings 5:15	And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and came, and stood before him; and he said, Behold now, I know that there is no God in all the earth, but in Israel: now therefore, I pray thee, take a present of thy servant.
Kings 5:16	But he said, As Jehovah liveth, before whom I stand, I will receive none. And he urged him to take it; but he refused.
Kings 5:17	And Naaman said, If not, yet, I pray thee, let there be given to thy servant two mules burden of earth; for thy servant will henceforth offer neither burnt-offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto Jehovah.
Kings 5:18	In this thing Jehovah pardon thy servant: when my master goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, Jehovah pardon thy servant in this thing.
Kings 5:19	And he said unto him, Go in peace. So he departed from him a little way.
Kings 5:20	But Gehazi the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold, my master hath spared this Naaman the Syrian, in not receiving at his hands that which he brought: as Jehovah liveth, I will run after him, and take somewhat of him.
Kings 5:21	So Gehazi followed after Naaman. And when Naaman saw one running after him, he alighted from the chariot to meet him, and said, Is all well?
Kings 5:22	And he said, All is well. My master hath sent me, saying, Behold, even now there are come to me from the hill-country of Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets; give them, I pray thee, a talent of silver, and two changes of raiment.
Kings 5:23	And Naaman said, Be pleased to take two talents. And he urged him, and bound two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of raiment, and laid them upon two of his servants; and they bare them before him.
Kings 5:24	And when he came to the hill, he took them from their hand, and bestowed them in the house; and he let the men go, and they departed.
Kings 5:25	But he went in, and stood before his master. And Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no whither.
Kings 5:26	And he said unto him, Went not my heart with thee , when the man turned from his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receive money, and to receive garments, and oliveyards and vineyards, and sheep and oxen, and men-servants and maid-servants?
Kings 5:27	The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed for ever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow.
Kings 6:1	And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now, the place where we dwell before thee is too strait for us.
Kings 6:2	Let us go, we pray thee, unto the Jordan, and take thence every man a beam, and let us make us a place there, where we may dwell. And he answered, Go ye.
Kings 6:3	And one said, Be pleased, I pray thee, to go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go.
Kings 6:4	So he went with them. And when they came to the Jordan, they cut down wood.
Kings 6:5	But as one was felling a beam, the axe-head fell into the water; and he cried, and said, Alas, my master! for it was borrowed.
Kings 6:6	And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed him the place. And he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither, and made the iron to swim.
Kings 6:7	And he said, Take it up to thee. So he put out his hand, and took it.
Kings 6:8	Now the king of Syria was warring against Israel; and he took counsel with his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp.
Kings 6:9	And the man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware that thou pass not such a place; for thither the Syrians are coming down.
Kings 6:10	And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God told him and warned him of; and he saved himself there, not once nor twice.
Kings 6:11	And the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled for this thing; and he called his servants, and said unto them, Will ye not show me which of us is for the king of Israel?
Kings 6:12	And one of his servants said, Nay, my lord, O king; but Elisha, the prophet that is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber.
Kings 6:13	And he said, Go and see where he is, that I may send and fetch him. And it was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.
Kings 6:14	Therefore sent he thither horses, and chariots, and a great host: and they came by night, and compassed the city about.
Kings 6:15	And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and gone forth, behold, a host with horses and chariots was round about the city. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master! how shall we do?
Kings 6:16	And he answered, Fear not; for they that are with us are more than they that are with them.
Kings 6:17	And Elisha prayed, and said, Jehovah, I pray thee, open his eyes, that he may see. And Jehovah opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha.
Kings 6:18	And when they came down to him, Elisha prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness. And he smote them with blindness according to the word of Elisha.
Kings 6:19	And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is this the city: follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom ye seek. And he led them to Samaria.
Kings 6:20	And it came to pass, when they were come into Samaria, that Elisha said, Jehovah, open the eyes of these men, that they may see. And Jehovah opened their eyes, and they saw; and, behold, they were in the midst of Samaria.
Kings 6:21	And the king of Israel said unto Elisha, when he saw them, My father, shall I smite them? shall I smite them?
Kings 6:22	And he answered, Thou shalt not smite them: wouldest thou smite those whom thou hast taken captive with thy sword and with thy bow? set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master.
Kings 6:23	And he prepared great provision for them; and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel.
Kings 6:24	And it came to pass after this, that Benhadad king of Syria gathered all his host, and went up, and besieged Samaria.
Kings 6:25	And there was a great famine in Samaria: and, behold, they besieged it, until an ass's head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a kab of dove's dung for five pieces of silver.
Kings 6:26	And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there cried a woman unto him, saying, Help, my lord, O king.
Kings 6:27	And he said, If Jehovah do not help thee, whence shall I help thee? out of the threshing-floor, or out of the winepress?
Kings 6:28	And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, This woman said unto me, Give thy son, that we may eat him to-day, and we will eat my son to-morrow.
Kings 6:29	So we boiled my son, and did eat him: and I said unto her on the next day, Give thy son, that we may eat him; and she hath hid her son.
Kings 6:30	And it came to pass, when the king heard the words of the woman, that he rent his clothes (now he was passing by upon the wall); and the people looked, and, behold, he had sackcloth within upon his flesh.
Kings 6:31	Then he said, God do so to me, and more also, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day.
Kings 6:32	But Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him; and the king'sent a man from before him: but ere the messenger came to him, he said to the elders, See ye how this son of a murderer hath sent to take away my head? look, when the messenger cometh, shut the door, and hold the door fast against him: is not the sound of his master's feet behind him?
Kings 6:33	And while he was yet talking with them, behold, the messenger came down unto him: and he said, Behold, this evil is of Jehovah; why should I wait for Jehovah any longer?
Kings 7:1	And Elisha said, Hear ye the word of Jehovah: thus saith Jehovah, To-morrow about this time shall a measure of fine flour be'sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria.
Kings 7:2	Then the captain on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God, and said, Behold, if Jehovah should make windows in heaven, might this thing be? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shalt not eat thereof.
Kings 7:3	Now there were four leprous men at the entrance of the gate: and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die?
Kings 7:4	If we say, We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there; and if we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore come, and let us fall unto the host of the Syrians: if they save us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die.
Kings 7:5	And they rose up in the twilight, to go unto the camp of the Syrians; and when they were come to the outermost part of the camp of the Syrians, behold, there was no man there.
Kings 7:6	For the Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great host: and they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to come upon us.
Kings 7:7	Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and their asses, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life.
Kings 7:8	And when these lepers came to the outermost part of the camp, they went into one tent, and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver, and gold, and raiment, and went and hid it; and they came back, and entered into another tent, and carried thence also, and went and hid it.
Kings 7:9	Then they said one to another, We do not well; this day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace: if we tarry till the morning light, punishment will overtake us; now therefore come, let us go and tell the king's household.
Kings 7:10	So they came and called unto the porter of the city; and they told them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and, behold, there was no man there, neither voice of man, but the horses tied, and the asses tied, and the tents as they were.
Kings 7:11	And he called the porters; and they told it to the king's household within.
Kings 7:12	And the king arose in the night, and said unto his servants, I will now show you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we are hungry; therefore are they gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, When they come out of the city, we shall take them alive, and get into the city.
Kings 7:13	And one of his servants answered and said, Let some take, I pray thee, five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city (behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel that are left in it; behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel that are consumed); and let us send and see.
Kings 7:14	They took therefore two chariots with horses; and the king sent after the host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see.
Kings 7:15	And they went after them unto the Jordan: and, lo, all the way was full of garments and vessels, which the Syrians had cast away in their haste. And the messengers returned, and told the king.
Kings 7:16	And the people went out, and plundered the camp of the Syrians. So a measure of fine flour was'sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of Jehovah.
Kings 7:17	And the king appointed the captain on whose hand he leaned to have the charge of the gate: and the people trod upon him in the gate, and he died as the man of God had said, who spake when the king came down to him.
Kings 7:18	And it came to pass, as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine flour for a shekel, shall be to-morrow about this time in the gate of Samaria;
Kings 7:19	and that captain answered the man of God, and said, Now, behold, if Jehovah should make windows in heaven, might such a thing be? and he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shalt not eat thereof:
Kings 7:20	it came to pass even so unto him; for the people trod upon him in the gate, and he died.
Kings 8:1	Now Elisha had spoken unto the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying, Arise, and go thou and thy household, and sojourn wheresoever thou canst sojourn: for Jehovah hath called for a famine; and it shall also come upon the land seven years.
Kings 8:2	And the woman arose, and did according to the word of the man of God; and she went with her household, and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years.
Kings 8:3	And it came to pass at the seven years end, that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines: and she went forth to cry unto the king for her house and for her land.
Kings 8:4	Now the king was talking with Gehazi the servant of the man of God, saying, Tell me, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha hath done.
Kings 8:5	And it came to pass, as he was telling the king how he had restored to life him that was dead, that, behold, the woman, whose son he had restored to life, cried to the king for her house and for her land. And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.
Kings 8:6	And when the king asked the woman, she told him. So the king appointed unto her a certain officer, saying, Restore all that was hers, and all the fruits of the field since the day that she left the land, even until now.
Kings 8:7	And Elisha came to Damascus; and Benhadad the king of Syria was sick; and it was told him, saying, The man of God is come hither.
Kings 8:8	And the king said unto Hazael, Take a present in thy hand, and go, meet the man of God, and inquire of Jehovah by him, saying, Shall I recover of this sickness?
Kings 8:9	So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present with him, even of every good thing of Damascus, forty camels burden, and came and stood before him, and said, Thy son Benhadad king of Syria hath sent me to thee, saying, Shall I recover of this sickness?
Kings 8:10	And Elisha said unto him, Go, say unto him, Thou shalt surely recover; howbeit Jehovah hath showed me that he shall surely die.
Kings 8:11	And he settled his countenance stedfastly upon him , until he was ashamed: and the man of God wept.
Kings 8:12	And Hazael said, Why weepeth my lord? And he answered, Because I know the evil that thou wilt do unto the children of Israel: their strongholds wilt thou set on fire, and their young men wilt thou slay with the sword, and wilt dash in pieces their little ones, and rip up their women with child.
Kings 8:13	And Hazael said, But what is thy servant, who is but a dog, that he should do this great thing? And Elisha answered, Jehovah hath showed me that thou shalt be king over Syria.
Kings 8:14	Then he departed from Elisha, and came to his master; who said to him, What said Elisha to thee? And he answered, He told me that thou wouldest surely recover.
Kings 8:15	And it came to pass on the morrow, that he took the coverlet, and dipped it in water, and spread it on his face, so that he died: and Hazael reigned in his stead.
Kings 8:16	And in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel, Jehoshaphat being then king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah began to reign.
Kings 8:17	Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign; and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
Kings 8:18	And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife; and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
Kings 8:19	Howbeit Jehovah would not destroy Judah, for David his servant's sake, as he promised him to give unto him a lamp for his children alway.
Kings 8:20	In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and made a king over themselves.
Kings 8:21	Then Joram passed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him: and he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites that compassed him about, and the captains of the chariots; and the people fled to their tents.
Kings 8:22	So Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this day. Then did Libnah revolt at the same time.
Kings 8:23	And the rest of the acts of Joram, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 8:24	And Joram slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 8:25	In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel did Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah begin to reign.
Kings 8:26	Two and twenty years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign; and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri king of Israel.
Kings 8:27	And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab, and did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as did the house of Ahab; for he was the son-in-law of the house of Ahab.
Kings 8:28	And he went with Joram the son of Ahab to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead: and the Syrians wounded Joram.
Kings 8:29	And king Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick.
Kings 9:1	And Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets, and said unto him, Gird up thy loins, and take this vial of oil in thy hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead.
Kings 9:2	And when thou comest thither, look out there Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi, and go in, and make him arise up from among his brethren, and carry him to an inner chamber.
Kings 9:3	Then take the vial of oil, and pour it on his head, and say, Thus saith Jehovah, I have anointed thee king over Israel. Then open the door, and flee, and tarry not.
Kings 9:4	So the young man, even the young man the prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead.
Kings 9:5	And when he came, behold, the captains of the host were sitting; and he said, I have an errand to thee, O captain. And Jehu said, Unto which of us all? And he said, To thee, O captain.
Kings 9:6	And he arose, and went into the house; and he poured the oil on his head, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have anointed thee king over the people of Jehovah, even over Israel.
Kings 9:7	And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab thy master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of Jehovah, at the hand of Jezebel.
Kings 9:8	For the whole house of Ahab shall perish; and I will cut off from Ahab every man-child, and him that is shut up and him that is left at large in Israel.
Kings 9:9	And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah.
Kings 9:10	And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and there shall be none to bury her. And he opened the door, and fled.
Kings 9:11	Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one said unto him, Is all well? wherefore came this mad fellow to thee? And he said unto them, Ye know the man and what his talk was.
Kings 9:12	And they said, It is false; tell us now. And he said, Thus and thus spake he to me, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, I have anointed thee king over Israel.
Kings 9:13	Then they hasted, and took every man his garment, and put it under him on the top of the stairs, and blew the trumpet, saying, Jehu is king.
Kings 9:14	So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. (Now Joram was keeping Ramoth-gilead, he and all Israel, because of Hazael king of Syria;
Kings 9:15	but king Joram was returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him, when he fought with Hazael king of Syria.) And Jehu said, If this be your mind, then let none escape and go forth out of the city, to go to tell it in Jezreel.
Kings 9:16	So Jehu rode in a chariot, and went to Jezreel; for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah was come down to see Joram.
Kings 9:17	Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel, and he spied the company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a company. And Joram said, Take a horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it peace?
Kings 9:18	So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What hast thou to do with peace? turn thee behind me. And the watchman told, saying, The messenger came to them, but he cometh not back.
Kings 9:19	Then he sent out a second on horseback, who came to them, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu answered, What hast thou to do with peace? turn thee behind me.
Kings 9:20	And the watchman told, saying, He came even unto them, and cometh not back: and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi; for he driveth furiously.
Kings 9:21	And Joram said, Make ready. And they made ready his chariot. And Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out, each in his chariot, and they went out to meet Jehu, and found him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite.
Kings 9:22	And it came to pass, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, Is it peace, Jehu? And he answered, What peace, so long as the whoredoms of thy mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?
Kings 9:23	And Joram turned his hands, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, There is treachery, O Ahaziah.
Kings 9:24	And Jehu drew his bow with his full strength, and smote Joram between his arms; and the arrow went out at his heart, and he sunk down in his chariot.
Kings 9:25	Then said Jehu to Bidkar his captain, Take up, and cast him in the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite; for remember how that, when I and thou rode together after Ahab his father, Jehovah laid this burden upon him:
Kings 9:26	Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth, and the blood of his sons, saith Jehovah; and I will requite thee in this plat, saith Jehovah. Now therefore take and cast him into the plat of ground , according to the word of Jehovah.
Kings 9:27	But when Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden-house. And Jehu followed after him, and said, Smite him also in the chariot: and they smote him at the ascent of Gur, which is by Ibleam. And he fled to Megiddo, and died there.
Kings 9:28	And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the city of David.
Kings 9:29	And in the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab began Ahaziah to reign over Judah.
Kings 9:30	And when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it; and she painted her eyes, and attired her head, and looked out at the window.
Kings 9:31	And as Jehu entered in at the gate, she said, Is it peace, thou Zimri, thy master's murderer?
Kings 9:32	And he lifted up his face to the window, and said, Who is on my side? who? And there looked out to him two or three eunuchs.
Kings 9:33	And he said, Throw her down. So they threw her down; and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall, and on the horses: and he trod her under foot.
Kings 9:34	And when he was come in, he did eat and drink; and he said, See now to this cursed woman, and bury her; for she is a king's daughter.
Kings 9:35	And they went to bury her; but they found no more of her than the skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands.
Kings 9:36	Wherefore they came back, and told him. And he said, This is the word of Jehovah, which he spake by his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel shall the dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel;
Kings 9:37	and the body of Jezebel shall be as dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel, so that they shall not say, This is Jezebel.
Kings 10:1	Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria, unto the rulers of Jezreel, even the elders, and unto them that brought up the sons of Ahab, saying,
Kings 10:2	And now as soon as this letter cometh to you, seeing your master's sons are with you, and there are with you chariots and horses, a fortified city also, and armor;
Kings 10:3	look ye out the best and meetest of your master's sons, and set him on his father's throne, and fight for your master's house.
Kings 10:4	But they were exceedingly afraid, and said, Behold, the two kings stood not before him: how then shall we stand?
Kings 10:5	And he that was over the household, and he that was over the city, the elders also, and they that brought up the children , sent to Jehu, saying, We are thy servants, and will do all that thou shalt bid us; we will not make any man king: do thou that which is good in thine eyes.
Kings 10:6	Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, If ye be on my side, and if ye will hearken unto my voice, take ye the heads of the men your master's sons, and come to me to Jezreel by to-morrow this time. Now the king's sons, being seventy persons, were with the great men of the city, who brought them up.
Kings 10:7	And it came to pass, when the letter came to them, that they took the king's sons, and slew them, even seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets, and sent them unto him to Jezreel.
Kings 10:8	And there came a messenger, and told him, saying, They have brought the heads of the king's sons. And he said, Lay ye them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until the morning.
Kings 10:9	And it came to pass in the morning, that he went out, and stood, and said to all the people, Ye are righteous: behold, I conspired against my master, and slew him; but who smote all these?
Kings 10:10	Know now that there shall fall unto the earth nothing of the word of Jehovah, which Jehovah spake concerning the house of Ahab: for Jehovah hath done that which he spake by his servant Elijah.
Kings 10:11	So Jehu smote all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his great men, and his familiar friends, and his priests, until he left him none remaining.
Kings 10:12	And he arose and departed, and went to Samaria. And as he was at the shearing-house of the shepherds in the way,
Kings 10:13	Jehu met with the brethren of Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ye? And they answered, We are the brethren of Ahaziah: and we go down to salute the children of the king and the children of the queen.
Kings 10:14	And he said, Take them alive. And they took them alive, and slew them at the pit of the shearing-house, even two and forty men; neither left he any of them.
Kings 10:15	And when he was departed thence, he lighted on Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him; and he saluted him, and said to him, Is thy heart right, as my heart is with thy heart? And Jehonadab answered, It is. If it be, give me thy hand. And he gave him his hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.
Kings 10:16	And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for Jehovah. So they made him ride in his chariot.
Kings 10:17	And when he came to Samaria, he smote all that remained unto Ahab in Samaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spake to Elijah.
Kings 10:18	And Jehu gathered all the people together, and said unto them, Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu will serve him much.
Kings 10:19	Now therefore call unto me all the prophets of Baal, all his worshippers, and all his priests; let none be wanting: for I have a great sacrifice to do to Baal; whosoever shall be wanting, he shall not live. But Jehu did it in subtlety, to the intent that he might destroy the worshippers of Baal.
Kings 10:20	And Jehu said, Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal. And they proclaimed it.
Kings 10:21	And Jehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not. And they came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was filled from one end to another.
Kings 10:22	And he said unto him that was over the vestry, Bring forth vestments for all the worshippers of Baal. And he brought them forth vestments.
Kings 10:23	And Jehu went, and Jehonadab the son of Rechab, into the house of Baal; and he said unto the worshippers of Baal, Search, and look that there be here with you none of the servants of Jehovah, but the worshippers of Baal only.
Kings 10:24	And they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt-offerings. Now Jehu had appointed him fourscore men without, and said, If any of the men whom I bring into your hands escape, he that letteth him go , his life shall be for the life of him.
Kings 10:25	And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the captains, Go in, and slay them; let none come forth. And they smote them with the edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out, and went to the city of the house of Baal.
Kings 10:26	And they brought forth the pillars that were in the house of Baal, and burned them.
Kings 10:27	And they brake down the pillar of Baal, and brake down the house of Baal, and made it a draught-house, unto this day.
Kings 10:28	Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.
Kings 10:29	Howbeit from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin, Jehu departed not from after them, to wit , the golden calves that were in Beth-el, and that were in Dan.
Kings 10:30	And Jehovah said unto Jehu, Because thou hast done well in executing that which is right in mine eyes, and hast done unto the house of Ahab according to all that was in my heart, thy sons of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.
Kings 10:31	But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of Jehovah, the God of Israel, with all his heart: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, wherewith he made Israel to sin.
Kings 10:32	In those days Jehovah began to cut off from Israel: and Hazael smote them in all the borders of Israel;
Kings 10:33	from the Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, even Gilead and Bashan.
Kings 10:34	Now the rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 10:35	And Jehu slept with his fathers; and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 10:36	And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty and eight years.
Kings 11:1	Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.
Kings 11:2	But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away from among the king's sons that were slain, even him and his nurse, and put them in the bedchamber; and they hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not slain;
Kings 11:3	And he was with her hid in the house of Jehovah six years. And Athaliah reigned over the land.
Kings 11:4	And in the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the captains over hundreds of the Carites and of the guard, and brought them to him into the house of Jehovah; and he made a covenant with them, and took an oath of them in the house of Jehovah, and showed them the king's son.
Kings 11:5	And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing that ye shall do: a third part of you, that come in on the sabbath, shall be keepers of the watch of the king's house;
Kings 11:6	And a third part shall be at the gate Sur; and a third part at the gate behind the guard: so shall ye keep the watch of the house, and be a barrier.
Kings 11:7	And the two companies of you, even all that go forth on the sabbath, shall keep the watch of the house of Jehovah about the king.
Kings 11:8	And ye shall compass the king round about, every man with his weapons in his hand; and he that cometh within the ranks, let him be slain: and be ye with the king when he goeth out, and when he cometh in.
Kings 11:9	And the captains over hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded; and they took every man his men, those that were to come in on the sabbath, with those that were to go out on the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.
Kings 11:10	And the priest delivered to the captains over hundreds the spears and shields that had been king David's, which were in the house of Jehovah.
Kings 11:11	And the guard stood, every man with his weapons in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, along by the altar and the house, by the king round about.
Kings 11:12	Then he brought out the king's son, and put the crown upon him, and gave him the testimony; and they made him king, and anointed him; and they clapped their hands, and said, Long live the king.
Kings 11:13	And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she came to the people into the house of Jehovah:
Kings 11:14	and she looked, and, behold, the king stood by the pillar, as the manner was, and the captains and the trumpets by the king; and all the people of the land rejoiced, and blew trumpets. Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and cried, Treason! treason!
Kings 11:15	And Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of hundreds that were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth between the ranks; and him that followeth her slay with the sword. For the priest said, Let her not be slain in the house of Jehovah.
Kings 11:16	So they made way for her; and she went by the way of the horses entry to the king's house: and there was she slain.
Kings 11:17	And Jehoiada made a covenant between Jehovah and the king and the people, that they should be Jehovah's people; between the king also and the people.
Kings 11:18	And all the people of the land went to the house of Baal, and brake it down; his altars and his images brake they in pieces thoroughly, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest appointed officers over the house of Jehovah.
Kings 11:19	And he took the captains over hundreds, and the Carites, and the guard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the king from the house of Jehovah, and came by the way of the gate of the guard unto the king's house. And he sat on the throne of the kings.
Kings 11:20	So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet. And Athaliah they had slain with the sword at the king's house.
Kings 11:21	Jehoash was seven years old when he began to reign.
Kings 12:1	In the seventh year of Jehu began Jehoash to reign; and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Zibiah of Beer-sheba.
Kings 12:2	And Jehoash did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah all his days wherein Jehoiada the priest instructed him.
Kings 12:3	Howbeit the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
Kings 12:4	And Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the hallowed things that is brought into the house of Jehovah, in current money, the money of the persons for whom each man is rated, and all the money that it cometh into any man's heart to bring into the house of Jehovah,
Kings 12:5	let the priests take it to them, every man from his acquaintance; and they shall repair the breaches of the house, wheresoever any breach shall be found.
Kings 12:6	But it was so, that in the three and twentieth year of king Jehoash the priests had not repaired the breaches of the house.
Kings 12:7	Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and for the other priests, and said unto them, Why repair ye not the breaches of the house? now therefore take no more money from your acquaintance, but deliver it for the breaches of the house.
Kings 12:8	And the priests consented that they should take no more money from the people, neither repair the breaches of the house.
Kings 12:9	But Jehoiada the priest took a chest, and bored a hole in the lid of it, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one cometh into the house of Jehovah: and the priests that kept the threshold put therein all the money that was brought into the house of Jehovah.
Kings 12:10	And it was so, when they saw that there was much money in the chest, that the king's scribe and the high priest came up, and they put up in bags and counted the money that was found in the house of Jehovah.
Kings 12:11	And they gave the money that was weighed out into the hands of them that did the work, that had the oversight of the house of Jehovah: and they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders, that wrought upon the house of Jehovah,
Kings 12:12	and to the masons and the hewers of stone, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the breaches of the house of Jehovah, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it.
Kings 12:13	But there were not made for the house of Jehovah cups of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of silver, of the money that was brought into the house of Jehovah;
Kings 12:14	for they gave that to them that did the work, and repaired therewith the house of Jehovah.
Kings 12:15	Moreover they reckoned not with the men, into whose hand they delivered the money to give to them that did the work; for they dealt faithfully.
Kings 12:16	The money for the trespass-offerings, and the money for the sin-offerings, was not brought into the house of Jehovah: it was the priests .
Kings 12:17	Then Hazael king of Syria went up, and fought against Gath, and took it; and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem.
Kings 12:18	And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed things that Jehoshaphat and Jehoram and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah, had dedicated, and his own hallowed things, and all the gold that was found in the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and of the king's house, and sent it to Hazael king of Syria: and he went away from Jerusalem.
Kings 12:19	Now the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 12:20	And his servants arose, and made a conspiracy, and smote Joash at the house of Millo, on the way that goeth down to Silla.
Kings 12:21	For Jozacar the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, smote him, and he died; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David: and Amaziah his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 13:1	In the three and twentieth year of Joash the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned'seventeen years.
Kings 13:2	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin; he departed not therefrom.
Kings 13:3	And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria, and into the hand of Benhadad the son of Hazael, continually.
Kings 13:4	And Jehoahaz besought Jehovah, and Jehovah hearkened unto him; for he saw the oppression of Israel, how that the king of Syria oppressed them.
Kings 13:5	(And Jehovah gave Israel a saviour, so that they went out from under the hand of the Syrians; and the children of Israel dwelt in their tents as beforetime.
Kings 13:6	Nevertheless they departed not from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, wherewith he made Israel to sin, but walked therein: and there remained the Asherah also in Samaria.)
Kings 13:7	For he left not to Jehoahaz of the people save fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand footmen; for the king of Syria destroyed them, and made them like the dust in threshing.
Kings 13:8	Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, and all that he did, and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 13:9	And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers; and they buried him in Samaria: and Joash his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 13:10	In the thirty and seventh year of Joash king of Judah began Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned'sixteen years.
Kings 13:11	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin; but he walked therein.
Kings 13:12	Now the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, and his might wherewith he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 13:13	And Joash slept with his fathers; and Jeroboam sat upon his throne: and Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.
Kings 13:14	Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died: and Joash the king of Israel came down unto him, and wept over him, and said, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and the horsemen thereof!
Kings 13:15	And Elisha said unto him, Take bow and arrows; and he took unto him bow and arrows.
Kings 13:16	And he said to the king of Israel, Put thy hand upon the bow; and he put his hand upon it . And Elisha laid his hands upon the king's hands.
Kings 13:17	And he said, Open the window eastward; and he opened it. Then Elisha said, Shoot; and he shot. And he said, Jehovah's arrow of victory, even the arrow of victory over Syria; for thou shalt smite the Syrians in Aphek, till thou have consumed them.
Kings 13:18	And he said, Take the arrows; and he took them. And he said unto the king of Israel, Smite upon the ground; and he smote thrice, and stayed.
Kings 13:19	And the man of God was wroth with him, and said, Thou shouldest have smitten five or six times: then hadst thou smitten Syria till thou hadst consumed it, whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice.
Kings 13:20	And Elisha died, and they buried him. Now the bands of the Moabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year.
Kings 13:21	And it came to pass, as they were burying a man, that, behold, they spied a band; and they cast the man into the sepulchre of Elisha: and as soon as the man touched the bones of Elisha, he revived, and stood up on his feet.
Kings 13:22	And Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.
Kings 13:23	But Jehovah was gracious unto them, and had compassion on them, and had respect unto them, because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, neither cast he them from his presence as yet.
Kings 13:24	And Hazael king of Syria died; and Benhadad his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 13:25	And Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again out of the hand of Benhadad the son of Hazael the cities which he had taken out of the hand of Jehoahaz his father by war. Three times did Joash smite him, and recovered the cities of Israel.
Kings 14:1	In the second year of Joash son of Joahaz king of Israel began Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah to reign.
Kings 14:2	He was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jehoaddin of Jerusalem.
Kings 14:3	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, yet not like David his father: he did according to all that Joash his father had done.
Kings 14:4	Howbeit the high places were not taken away: the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
Kings 14:5	And it came to pass, as soon as the kingdom was established in his hand, that he slew his servants who had slain the king his father:
Kings 14:6	but the children of the murderers he put not to death; according to that which is written in the book of the law of Moses, as Jehovah commanded, saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children be put to death for the fathers; but every man shall die for his own sin.
Kings 14:7	He slew of Edom in the Valley of Salt ten thousand, and took Sela by war, and called the name of it Joktheel, unto this day.
Kings 14:8	Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the face.
Kings 14:9	And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trod down the thistle.
Kings 14:10	Thou hast indeed smitten Edom, and thy heart hath lifted thee up: glory thereof, and abide at home; for why shouldest thou meddle to thy hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with thee?
Kings 14:11	But Amaziah would not hear. So Jehoash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in the face at Beth-shemesh, which belongeth to Judah.
Kings 14:12	And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled every man to his tent.
Kings 14:13	And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim unto the corner gate, four hundred cubits.
Kings 14:14	And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of Jehovah, and in the treasures of the king's house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.
Kings 14:15	Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 14:16	And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel; and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 14:17	And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
Kings 14:18	Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 14:19	And they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to Lachish: but they sent after him to Lachish, and slew him there.
Kings 14:20	And they brought him upon horses; and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David.
Kings 14:21	And all the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.
Kings 14:22	He built Elath, and restored it to Judah, after that the king slept with his fathers.
Kings 14:23	In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria, and reigned forty and one years.
Kings 14:24	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin.
Kings 14:25	He restored the border of Israel from the entrance of Hamath unto the sea of the Arabah, according to the word of Jehovah, the God of Israel, which he spake by his servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet, who was of Gath-hepher.
Kings 14:26	For Jehovah saw the affliction of Israel, that it was very bitter; for there was none shut up nor left at large, neither was there any helper for Israel.
Kings 14:27	And Jehovah said not that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven; but he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash.
Kings 14:28	Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and his might, how he warred, and how he recovered Damascus, and Hamath, which had belonged to Judah, for Israel, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 14:29	And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel; and Zechariah his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:1	In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel began Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah to reign.
Kings 15:2	Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign; and he reigned two and fifty years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
Kings 15:3	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
Kings 15:4	Howbeit the high places were not taken away: the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
Kings 15:5	And Jehovah smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the day of his death, and dwelt in a separate house. And Jotham the king's son was over the household, judging the people of the land.
Kings 15:6	Now the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 15:7	And Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:8	In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah did Zechariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months.
Kings 15:9	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as his fathers had done: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin.
Kings 15:10	And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and smote him before the people, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:11	Now the rest of the acts of Zechariah, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
Kings 15:12	This was the word of Jehovah which he spake unto Jehu, saying, Thy sons to the fourth generation shall sit upon the throne of Israel. And so it came to pass.
Kings 15:13	Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the nine and thirtieth year of Uzziah king of Judah; and he reigned the space of a month in Samaria.
Kings 15:14	And Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to Samaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:15	Now the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he made, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
Kings 15:16	Then Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that were therein, and the borders thereof, from Tirzah: because they opened not to him, therefore he smote it; and all the women therein that were with child he ripped up.
Kings 15:17	In the nine and thirtieth year of Azariah king of Judah began Menahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel, and reigned ten years in Samaria.
Kings 15:18	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: he departed not all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin.
Kings 15:19	There came against the land Pul the king of Assyria; and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver, that his hand might be with him to confirm the kingdom in his hand.
Kings 15:20	And Menahem exacted the money of Israel, even of all the mighty men of wealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back, and stayed not there in the land.
Kings 15:21	Now the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Kings 15:22	And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:23	In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned two years.
Kings 15:24	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin.
Kings 15:25	And Pekah the son of Remaliah, his captain, conspired against him, and smote him in Samaria, in the castle of the king's house, with Argob and Arieh; and with him were fifty men of the Gileadites: and he slew him, and reigned in his stead.
Kings 15:26	Now the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
Kings 15:27	In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned twenty years.
Kings 15:28	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin.
Kings 15:29	In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, and took Ijon, and Abel-beth-maacah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali; and he carried them captive to Assyria.
Kings 15:30	And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in his stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.
Kings 15:31	Now the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
Kings 15:32	In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel began Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign.
Kings 15:33	Five and twenty years old was he when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok.
Kings 15:34	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah; he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done.
Kings 15:35	Howbeit the high places were not taken away: the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. He built the upper gate of the house of Jehovah.
Kings 15:36	Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 15:37	In those days Jehovah began to send against Judah Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah.
Kings 15:38	And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 16:1	In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah Ahaz the son of Jotham king of Judah began to reign.
Kings 16:2	Twenty years old was Ahaz when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and he did not that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah his God, like David his father.
Kings 16:3	But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, yea, and made his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the nations, whom Jehovah cast out from before the children of Israel.
Kings 16:4	And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.
Kings 16:5	Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to war: and they besieged Ahaz, but could not overcome him.
Kings 16:6	At that time Rezin king of Syria recovered Elath to Syria, and drove the Jews from Elath; and the Syrians came to Elath, and dwelt there, unto this day.
Kings 16:7	So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, saying, I am thy servant and thy son: come up, and save me out of the hand of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of the king of Israel, who rise up against me.
Kings 16:8	And Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of Jehovah, and in the treasures of the king's house, and sent it for a present to the king of Assyria.
Kings 16:9	And the king of Assyria hearkened unto him; and the king of Assyria went up against Damascus, and took it, and carried the people of it captive to Kir, and slew Rezin.
Kings 16:10	And king Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, and saw the altar that was at Damascus; and king Ahaz sent to Urijah the priest the fashion of the altar, and the pattern of it, according to all the workmanship thereof.
Kings 16:11	And Urijah the priest built an altar: according to all that king Ahaz had sent from Damascus, so did Urijah the priest make it against the coming of king Ahaz from Damascus.
Kings 16:12	And when the king was come from Damascus, the king saw the altar: and the king drew near unto the altar, and offered thereon.
Kings 16:13	And he burnt his burnt-offering and his meal-offering, and poured his drink-offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace-offerings, upon the altar.
Kings 16:14	And the brazen altar, which was before Jehovah, he brought from the forefront of the house, from between his altar and the house of Jehovah, and put it on the north side of his altar.
Kings 16:15	And king Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, Upon the great altar burn the morning burnt-offering, and the evening meal-offering, and the king's burnt-offering, and his meal-offering, with the burnt-offering of all the people of the land, and their meal-offering, and their drink-offerings; and sprinkle upon it all the blood of the burnt-offering, and all the blood of the sacrifice: but the brazen altar shall be for me to inquire by.
Kings 16:16	Thus did Urijah the priest, according to all that king Ahaz commanded.
Kings 16:17	And king Ahaz cut off the panels of the bases, and removed the laver from off them, and took down the sea from off the brazen oxen that were under it, and put it upon a pavement of stone.
Kings 16:18	And the covered way for the sabbath that they had built in the house, and the king's entry without, turned he unto the house of Jehovah, because of the king of Assyria.
Kings 16:19	Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 16:20	And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 17:1	In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah began Hoshea the son of Elah to reign in Samaria over Israel, and reigned nine years.
Kings 17:2	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, yet not as the kings of Israel that were before him.
Kings 17:3	Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Assyria; and Hoshea became his servant, and brought him tribute.
Kings 17:4	And the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea; for he had sent messengers to So king of Egypt, and offered no tribute to the king of Assyria, as he had done year by year: therefore the king of Assyria shut him up, and bound him in prison.
Kings 17:5	Then the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, and went up to Samaria, and besieged it three years.
Kings 17:6	In the ninth year of Hoshea the king of Assyria took Samaria, and carried Israel away unto Assyria, and placed them in Halah, and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.
Kings 17:7	And it was so, because the children of Israel had sinned against Jehovah their God, who brought them up out of the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared other gods,
Kings 17:8	and walked in the statutes of the nations, whom Jehovah cast out from before the children of Israel, and of the kings of Israel, which they made.
Kings 17:9	And the children of Israel did secretly things that were not right against Jehovah their God: and they built them high places in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city;
Kings 17:10	and they set them up pillars and Asherim upon every high hill, and under every green tree;
Kings 17:11	and there they burnt incense in all the high places, as did the nations whom Jehovah carried away before them; and they wrought wicked things to provoke Jehovah to anger;
Kings 17:12	and they served idols, whereof Jehovah had said unto them, Ye shall not do this thing.
Kings 17:13	Yet Jehovah testified unto Israel, and unto Judah, by every prophet, and every seer, saying, Turn ye from your evil ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my servants the prophets.
Kings 17:14	Notwithstanding, they would not hear, but hardened their neck, like to the neck of their fathers, who believed not in Jehovah their God.
Kings 17:15	And they rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified unto them; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and went after the nations that were round about them, concerning whom Jehovah had charged them that they should not do like them.
Kings 17:16	And they forsook all the commandments of Jehovah their God, and made them molten images, even two calves, and made an Asherah, and worshipped all the host of heaven, and served Baal.
Kings 17:17	And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold themselves to do that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger.
Kings 17:18	Therefore Jehovah was very angry with Israel, and removed them out of his sight: there was none left but the tribe of Judah only.
Kings 17:19	Also Judah kept not the commandments of Jehovah their God, but walked in the statutes of Israel which they made.
Kings 17:20	And Jehovah rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflicted them, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, until he had cast them out of his sight.
Kings 17:21	For he rent Israel from the house of David; and they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king: and Jeroboam drove Israel from following Jehovah, and made them sin a great sin.
Kings 17:22	And the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which he did; they departed not from them;
Kings 17:23	until Jehovah removed Israel out of his sight, as he spake by all his servants the prophets. So Israel was carried away out of their own land to Assyria unto this day.
Kings 17:24	And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, and from Cuthah, and from Avva, and from Hamath and Sepharvaim, and placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel; and they possessed Samaria, and dwelt in the cities thereof.
Kings 17:25	And so it was, at the beginning of their dwelling there, that they feared not Jehovah: therefore Jehovah sent lions among them, which killed some of them.
Kings 17:26	Wherefore they spake to the king of Assyria, saying, The nations which thou hast carried away, and placed in the cities of Samaria, know not the law of the god of the land: therefore he hath sent lions among them, and, behold, they slay them, because they know not the law of the god of the land.
Kings 17:27	Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry thither one of the priests whom ye brought from thence; and let them go and dwell there, and let him teach them the law of the god of the land.
Kings 17:28	So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and dwelt in Beth-el, and taught them how they should fear Jehovah.
Kings 17:29	Howbeit every nation made gods of their own, and put them in the houses of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nation in their cities wherein they dwelt.
Kings 17:30	And the men of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, and the men of Cuth made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima,
Kings 17:31	and the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharvites burnt their children in the fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.
Kings 17:32	So they feared Jehovah, and made unto them from among themselves priests of the high places, who sacrificed for them in the houses of the high places.
Kings 17:33	They feared Jehovah, and served their own gods, after the manner of the nations from among whom they had been carried away.
Kings 17:34	Unto this day they do after the former manner: they fear not Jehovah, neither do they after their statutes, or after their ordinances, or after the law or after the commandment which Jehovah commanded the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel;
Kings 17:35	with whom Jehovah had made a covenant, and charged them, saying, Ye shall not fear other gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them:
Kings 17:36	but Jehovah, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt with great power and with an outstretched arm, him shall ye fear, and unto him shall ye bow yourselves, and to him shall ye sacrifice:
Kings 17:37	and the statutes and the ordinances, and the law and the commandment, which he wrote for you, ye shall observe to do for evermore; and ye shall not fear other gods:
Kings 17:38	and the covenant that I have made with you ye shall not forget; neither shall ye fear other gods:
Kings 17:39	but Jehovah your God shall ye fear; and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies.
Kings 17:40	Howbeit they did not hearken, but they did after their former manner.
Kings 17:41	So these nations feared Jehovah, and served their graven images; their children likewise, and their children's children, as did their fathers, so do they unto this day.
Kings 18:1	Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign.
Kings 18:2	Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Abi the daughter of Zechariah.
Kings 18:3	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that David his father had done.
Kings 18:4	He removed the high places, and brake the pillars, and cut down the Asherah: and he brake in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made; for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it; and he called it Nehushtan.
Kings 18:5	He trusted in Jehovah, the God of Israel; so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor among them that were before him.
Kings 18:6	For he clave to Jehovah; he departed not from following him, but kept his commandments, which Jehovah commanded Moses.
Kings 18:7	And Jehovah was with him; whithersoever he went forth he prospered: and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served him not.
Kings 18:8	He smote the Philistines unto Gaza and the borders thereof, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city.
Kings 18:9	And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria, and besieged it.
Kings 18:10	And at the end of three years they took it: in the sixth year of Hezekiah, which was the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was taken.
Kings 18:11	And the king of Assyria carried Israel away unto Assyria, and put them in Halah, and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes,
Kings 18:12	because they obeyed not the voice of Jehovah their God, but transgressed his covenant, even all that Moses the servant of Jehovah commanded, and would not hear it, nor do it.
Kings 18:13	Now in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah did Sennacherib king of Assyria come up against all the fortified cities of Judah, and took them.
Kings 18:14	And Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria to Lachish, saying, I have offended; return from me: that which thou puttest on me will I bear. And the king of Assyria appointed unto Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.
Kings 18:15	And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of Jehovah, and in the treasures of the king's house.
Kings 18:16	At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of Jehovah, and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria.
Kings 18:17	And the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rab-saris and Rabshakeh from Lachish to king Hezekiah with a great army unto Jerusalem. And they went up and came to Jerusalem. And when they were come up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in the highway of the fuller's field.
Kings 18:18	And when they had called to the king, there came out to them Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebnah the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder.
Kings 18:19	And Rabshakeh said unto them, Say ye now to Hezekiah, Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein thou trustest?
Kings 18:20	Thou sayest (but they are but vain words), There is counsel and strength for the war. Now on whom dost thou trust, that thou hast rebelled against me?
Kings 18:21	Now, behold, thou trustest upon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Egypt; whereon if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt unto all that trust on him.
Kings 18:22	But if ye say unto me, We trust in Jehovah our God; is not that he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and hath said to Judah and to Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem?
Kings 18:23	Now therefore, I pray thee, give pledges to my master the king of Assyria, and I will give thee two thousand horses, if thou be able on thy part to set riders upon them.
Kings 18:24	How then canst thou turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master's servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
Kings 18:25	Am I now come up without Jehovah against this place to destroy it? Jehovah said unto me, Go up against this land, and destroy it.
Kings 18:26	Then said Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebnah, and Joah, unto Rabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, to thy servants in the Syrian language; for we understand it: and speak not with us in the Jews language, in the ears of the people that are on the wall.
Kings 18:27	But Rabshakeh said unto them, Hath my master sent me to thy master, and to thee, to speak these words? hath he not'sent me to the men that sit on the wall, to eat their own dung, and to drink their own water with you?
Kings 18:28	Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loud voice in the Jews language, and spake, saying, Hear ye the word of the great king, the king of Assyria.
Kings 18:29	Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you; for he will not be able to deliver you out of his hand:
Kings 18:30	neither let Hezekiah make you trust in Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will surely deliver us, and this city shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
Kings 18:31	Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria, Make your peace with me, and come out to me; and eat ye every one of his vine, and every one of his fig-tree, and drink ye every one the waters of his own cistern;
Kings 18:32	Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive-trees and of honey, that ye may live, and not die: and hearken not unto Hezekiah, when he persuadeth you, saying, Jehovah will deliver us.
Kings 18:33	Hath any of the gods of the nations ever delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
Kings 18:34	Where are the gods of Hamath, and of Arpad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah? have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
Kings 18:35	Who are they among all the gods of the countries, that have delivered their country out of my hand, that Jehovah should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?
Kings 18:36	But the people held their peace, and answered him not a word; for the king's commandment was, saying, Answer him not.
Kings 18:37	Then came Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.
Kings 19:1	And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he rent his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of Jehovah.
Kings 19:2	And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, unto Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.
Kings 19:3	And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and of contumely; for the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.
Kings 19:4	It may be Jehovah thy God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria his master hath sent to defy the living God, and will rebuke the words which Jehovah thy God hath heard: wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that is left.
Kings 19:5	So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
Kings 19:6	And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say to your master, Thus saith Jehovah, Be not afraid of the words that thou hast heard, wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.
Kings 19:7	Behold, I will put a spirit in him, and he shall hear tidings, and shall return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.
Kings 19:8	So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah; for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.
Kings 19:9	And when he heard say of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, Behold, he is come out to fight against thee, he sent messengers again unto Hezekiah, saying,
Kings 19:10	Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying, Let not thy God in whom thou trustest deceive thee, saying, Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
Kings 19:11	Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, by destroying them utterly: and shalt thou be delivered?
Kings 19:12	Have the gods of the nations delivered them, which my fathers have destroyed, Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden that were in Telassar?
Kings 19:13	Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?
Kings 19:14	And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it; and Hezekiah went up unto the house of Jehovah, and spread it before Jehovah.
Kings 19:15	And Hezekiah prayed before Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, that sittest above the cherubim, thou art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; thou hast made heaven and earth.
Kings 19:16	Incline thine ear, O Jehovah, and hear; open thine eyes, O Jehovah, and see; and hear the words of Sennacherib, wherewith he hath sent him to defy the living God.
Kings 19:17	Of a truth, Jehovah, the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands,
Kings 19:18	and have cast their gods into the fire; for they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone; therefore they have destroyed them.
Kings 19:19	Now therefore, O Jehovah our God, save thou us, I beseech thee, out of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou Jehovah art God alone.
Kings 19:20	Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Whereas thou hast prayed to me against Sennacherib king of Assyria, I have heard thee .
Kings 19:21	This is the word that Jehovah hath spoken concerning him: The virgin daughter of Zion hath despised thee and laughed thee to scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her head at thee.
Kings 19:22	Whom hast thou defied and blasphemed? and against whom hast thou exalted thy voice and lifted up thine eyes on high? even against the Holy One of Israel.
Kings 19:23	By thy messengers thou hast defied the Lord, and hast said, With the multitude of my chariots am I come up to the height of the mountains, to the innermost parts of Lebanon; and I will cut down the tall cedars thereof, and the choice fir-trees thereof; and I will enter into his farthest lodging-place, the forest of his fruitful field.
Kings 19:24	I have digged and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my feet will I dry up all the rivers of Egypt.
Kings 19:25	Hast thou not heard how I have done it long ago, and formed it of ancient times? now have I brought it to pass, that it should be thine to lay waste fortified cities into ruinous heaps.
Kings 19:26	Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were dismayed and confounded; they were as the grass of the field, and as the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as grain blasted before it is grown up.
Kings 19:27	But I know thy sitting down, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and thy raging against me.
Kings 19:28	Because of thy raging against me, and because thine arrogancy is come up into mine ears, therefore will I put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thy lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest.
Kings 19:29	And this shall be the sign unto thee: Ye shall eat this year that which groweth of itself, and in the second year that which springeth of the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat the fruit thereof.
Kings 19:30	And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward.
Kings 19:31	For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and out of mount Zion they that shall escape: the zeal of Jehovah shall perform this.
Kings 19:32	Therefore thus saith Jehovah concerning the king of Assyria, He shall not come unto this city, nor shoot an arrow there, neither shall he come before it with shield, nor cast up a mound against it.
Kings 19:33	By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and he shall not come unto this city, saith Jehovah.
Kings 19:34	For I will defend this city to save it, for mine own sake, and for my servant David's sake.
Kings 19:35	And it came to pass that night, that the angel of Jehovah went forth, and smote in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred fourscore and five thousand: and when men arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
Kings 19:36	So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned, and dwelt at Nineveh.
Kings 19:37	And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer smote him with the sword: and they escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esar-haddon his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 20:1	In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Set thy house in order: for thou shalt die, and not live.
Kings 20:2	Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed unto Jehovah, saying,
Kings 20:3	Remember now, O Jehovah, I beseech thee, how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.
Kings 20:4	And it came to pass, before Isaiah was gone out into the middle part of the city, that the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
Kings 20:5	Turn back, and say to Hezekiah the prince of my people, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will heal thee; on the third day thou shalt go up unto the house of Jehovah.
Kings 20:6	And I will add unto thy days fifteen years; and I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city for mine own sake, and for my servant David's sake.
Kings 20:7	And Isaiah said, Take a cake of figs. And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.
Kings 20:8	And Hezekiah said unto Isaiah, What shall be the sign that Jehovah will heal me, and that I shall go up unto the house of Jehovah the third day?
Kings 20:9	And Isaiah said, This shall be the sign unto thee from Jehovah, that Jehovah will do the thing that he hath spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?
Kings 20:10	And Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to decline ten steps: nay, but let the shadow return backward ten steps.
Kings 20:11	And Isaiah the prophet cried unto Jehovah; and he brought the shadow ten steps backward, by which it had gone down on the dial of Ahaz.
Kings 20:12	At that time Berodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present unto Hezekiah; for he had heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
Kings 20:13	And Hezekiah hearkened unto them, and showed them all the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious oil, and the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah showed them not.
Kings 20:14	Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said unto him, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country, even from Babylon.
Kings 20:15	And he said, What have they seen in thy house? And Hezekiah answered, All that is in my house have they seen: there is nothing among my treasures that I have not showed them.
Kings 20:16	And Isaiah said unto Hezekiah, Hear the word of Jehovah.
Kings 20:17	Behold, the days come, that all that is in thy house, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day, shall be carried to Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith Jehovah.
Kings 20:18	And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, whom thou shalt beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.
Kings 20:19	Then said Hezekiah unto Isaiah, Good is the word of Jehovah which thou hast spoken. He said moreover, Is it not so, if peace and truth shall be in my days?
Kings 20:20	Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made the pool, and the conduit, and brought water into the city, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 20:21	And Hezekiah slept with his fathers; and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 21:1	Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign; and he reigned five and fifty years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Hephzibah.
Kings 21:2	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, after the abominations of the nations whom Jehovah cast out before the children of Israel.
Kings 21:3	For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed; and he reared up altars for Baal, and made an Asherah, as did Ahab king of Israel, and worshipped all the host of heaven, and served them.
Kings 21:4	And he built altars in the house of Jehovah, whereof Jehovah said, In Jerusalem will I put my name.
Kings 21:5	And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of Jehovah.
Kings 21:6	And he made his son to pass through the fire, and practised augury, and used enchantments, and dealt with them that had familiar spirits, and with wizards: he wrought much evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger.
Kings 21:7	And he set the graven image of Asherah, that he had made, in the house of which Jehovah said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever;
Kings 21:8	neither will I cause the feet of Israel to wander any more out of the land which I gave their fathers, if only they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded them.
Kings 21:9	But they hearkened not: and Manasseh seduced them to do that which is evil more than did the nations whom Jehovah destroyed before the children of Israel.
Kings 21:10	And Jehovah spake by his servants the prophets, saying,
Kings 21:11	Because Manasseh king of Judah hath done these abominations, and hath done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, that were before him, and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols;
Kings 21:12	therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Behold, I bring such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah, that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall tingle.
Kings 21:13	And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and the plummet of the house of Ahab; and I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipeth a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down.
Kings 21:14	And I will cast off the remnant of mine inheritance, and deliver them into the hand of their enemies; and they shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies;
Kings 21:15	because they have done that which is evil in my sight, and have provoked me to anger, since the day their fathers came forth out of Egypt, even unto this day.
Kings 21:16	Moreover Manasseh shed innocent blood very much, till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another; besides his sin wherewith he made Judah to sin, in doing that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
Kings 21:17	Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and all that he did, and his sin that he sinned, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 21:18	And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 21:19	Amon was twenty and two years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.
Kings 21:20	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as did Manasseh his father.
Kings 21:21	And he walked in all the way that his father walked in, and served the idols that his father served, and worshipped them:
Kings 21:22	and he forsook Jehovah, the God of his fathers, and walked not in the way of Jehovah.
Kings 21:23	And the servants of Amon conspired against him, and put the king to death in his own house.
Kings 21:24	But the people of the land slew all them that had conspired against king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead.
Kings 21:25	Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 21:26	And he was buried in his sepulchre in the garden of Uzza: and Josiah his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 22:1	Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned thirty and one years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath.
Kings 22:2	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and walked in all the way of David his father, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left.
Kings 22:3	And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, that the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam, the scribe, to the house of Jehovah, saying,
Kings 22:4	Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may sum the money which is brought into the house of Jehovah, which the keepers of the threshold have gathered of the people:
Kings 22:5	and let them deliver it into the hand of the workmen that have the oversight of the house of Jehovah; and let them give it to the workmen that are in the house of Jehovah, to repair the breaches of the house,
Kings 22:6	unto the carpenters, and to the builders, and to the masons, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the house.
Kings 22:7	Howbeit there was no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand; for they dealt faithfully.
Kings 22:8	And Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of Jehovah. And Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
Kings 22:9	And Shaphan the scribe came to the king, and brought the king word again, and said, Thy servants have emptied out the money that was found in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of the workmen that have the oversight of the house of Jehovah.
Kings 22:10	And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.
Kings 22:11	And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the book of the law, that he rent his clothes.
Kings 22:12	And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
Kings 22:13	Go ye, inquire of Jehovah for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that is found; for great is the wrath of Jehovah that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not hearkened unto the words of this book, to do according unto all that which is written concerning us.
Kings 22:14	So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiah, went unto Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the second quarter); and they communed with her.
Kings 22:15	And she said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: Tell ye the man that sent you unto me,
Kings 22:16	Thus saith Jehovah, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah hath read.
Kings 22:17	Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and it shall not be quenched.
Kings 22:18	But unto the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, thus shall ye say to him, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: As touching the words which thou hast heard,
Kings 22:19	because thy heart was tender, and thou didst humble thyself before Jehovah, when thou heardest what I spake against this place, and against the inhabitants thereof, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and hast rent thy clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard thee, saith Jehovah.
Kings 22:20	Therefore, behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered to thy grave in peace, neither shall thine eyes see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they brought the king word again.
Kings 23:1	And the king sent, and they gathered unto him all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem.
Kings 23:2	And the king went up to the house of Jehovah, and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great: and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of Jehovah.
Kings 23:3	And the king stood by the pillar, and made a covenant before Jehovah, to walk after Jehovah, and to keep his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and all his'soul, to confirm the words of this covenant that were written in this book: and all the people stood to the covenant.
Kings 23:4	And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the threshold, to bring forth out of the temple of Jehovah all the vessels that were made for Baal, and for the Asherah, and for all the host of heaven, and he burned them without Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron, and carried the ashes of them unto Beth-el.
Kings 23:5	And he put down the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah, and in the places round about Jerusalem; them also that burned incense unto Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the host of heaven.
Kings 23:6	And he brought out the Asherah from the house of Jehovah, without Jerusalem, unto the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron, and beat it to dust, and cast the dust thereof upon the graves of the common people.
Kings 23:7	And he brake down the houses of the sodomites, that were in the house of Jehovah, where the women wove hangings for the Asherah.
Kings 23:8	And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah, and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beer-sheba; and he brake down the high places of the gates that were at the entrance of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, which were on a man's left hand at the gate of the city.
Kings 23:9	Nevertheless the priests of the high places came not up to the altar of Jehovah in Jerusalem, but they did eat unleavened bread among their brethren.
Kings 23:10	And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the children of Hinnom, that no man might make his son or his daughter to pass through the fire to Molech.
Kings 23:11	And he took away the horses that the kings of Judah had given to the sun, at the entrance of the house of Jehovah, by the chamber of Nathan-melech the chamberlain, which was in the precincts; and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire.
Kings 23:12	And the altars that were on the roof of the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of Jehovah, did the king break down, and beat them down from thence, and cast the dust of them into the brook Kidron.
Kings 23:13	And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were on the right hand of the mount of corruption, which Solomon the king of Israel had builded for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Sidonians, and for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, and for Milcom the abomination of the children of Ammon, did the king defile.
Kings 23:14	And he brake in pieces the pillars, and cut down the Asherim, and filled their places with the bones of men.
Kings 23:15	Moreover the altar that was at Beth-el, and the high place which Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, had made, even that altar and the high place he brake down; and he burned the high place and beat it to dust, and burned the Asherah.
Kings 23:16	And as Josiah turned himself, he spied the sepulchres that were there in the mount; and he sent, and took the bones out of the sepulchres, and burned them upon the altar, and defiled it, according to the word of Jehovah which the man of God proclaimed, who proclaimed these things.
Kings 23:17	Then he said, What monument is that which I see? And the men of the city told him, It is the sepulchre of the man of God, who came from Judah, and proclaimed these things that thou hast done against the altar of Beth-el.
Kings 23:18	And he said, Let him be; let no man move his bones. So they let his bones alone, with the bones of the prophet that came out of Samaria.
Kings 23:19	And all the houses also of the high places that were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke Jehovah to anger, Josiah took away, and did to them according to all the acts that he had done in Beth-el.
Kings 23:20	And he slew all the priests of the high places that were there, upon the altars, and burned men's bones upon them; and he returned to Jerusalem.
Kings 23:21	And the king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the passover unto Jehovah your God, as it is written in this book of the covenant.
Kings 23:22	Surely there was not kept such a passover from the days of the judges that judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel, nor of the kings of Judah;
Kings 23:23	but in the eighteenth year of king Josiah was this passover kept to Jehovah in Jerusalem.
Kings 23:24	Moreover them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, and the teraphim, and the idols, and all the abominations that were seen in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, did Josiah put away, that he might confirm the words of the law which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of Jehovah.
Kings 23:25	And like unto him was there no king before him, that turned to Jehovah with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might, according to all the law of Moses; neither after him arose there any like him.
Kings 23:26	Notwithstanding, Jehovah turned not from the fierceness of his great wrath, wherewith his anger was kindled against Judah, because of all the provocations wherewith Manasseh had provoked him.
Kings 23:27	And Jehovah said, I will remove Judah also out of my sight, as I have removed Israel, and I will cast off this city which I have chosen, even Jerusalem, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there.
Kings 23:28	Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 23:29	In his days Pharaoh-necoh king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates: and king Josiah went against him; and Pharaoh-necoh'slew him at Megiddo, when he had seen him.
Kings 23:30	And his servants carried him in a chariot dead from Megiddo, and brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in his own sepulchre. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and anointed him, and made him king in his father's stead.
Kings 23:31	Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
Kings 23:32	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that his fathers had done.
Kings 23:33	And Pharaoh-necoh put him in bonds at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and put the land to a tribute of a hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold.
Kings 23:34	And Pharaoh-necoh made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the room of Josiah his father, and changed his name to Jehoiakim: but he took Jehoahaz away; and he came to Egypt, and died there.
Kings 23:35	And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh; but he taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of Pharaoh: he exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land, of every one according to his taxation, to give it unto Pharaoh-necoh.
Kings 23:36	Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Zebidah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.
Kings 23:37	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that his fathers had done.
Kings 24:1	In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant three years: then he turned and rebelled against him.
Kings 24:2	And Jehovah sent against him bands of the Chaldeans, and bands of the Syrians, and bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of Ammon, and sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spake by his servants the prophets.
Kings 24:3	Surely at the commandment of Jehovah came this upon Judah, to remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did,
Kings 24:4	and also for the innocent blood that he shed; for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood: and Jehovah would not pardon.
Kings 24:5	Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
Kings 24:6	So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers; and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead.
Kings 24:7	And the king of Egypt came not again any more out of his land; for the king of Babylon had taken, from the brook of Egypt unto the river Euphrates, all that pertained to the king of Egypt.
Kings 24:8	Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign; and he reigned in Jerusalem three months: and his mother's name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
Kings 24:9	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that his father had done.
Kings 24:10	At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up to Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.
Kings 24:11	And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came unto the city, while his servants were besieging it;
Kings 24:12	and Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and his officers: and the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign.
Kings 24:13	And he carried out thence all the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king's house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold, which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of Jehovah, as Jehovah had said.
Kings 24:14	And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all the princes, and all the mighty men of valor, even ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and the smiths; none remained, save the poorest sort of the people of the land.
Kings 24:15	And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon; and the king's mother, and the king's wives, and his officers, and the chief men of the land, carried he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.
Kings 24:16	And all the men of might, even seven thousand, and the craftsmen and the smiths a thousand, all of them strong and apt for war, even them the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.
Kings 24:17	And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah, Jehoiachin's father's brother, king is his stead, and changed his name to Zedekiah.
Kings 24:18	Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
Kings 24:19	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
Kings 24:20	For through the anger of Jehovah did it come to pass in Jerusalem and Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
Kings 25:1	And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusalem, and encamped against it; and they built forts against it round about.
Kings 25:2	So the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of king Zedekiah.
Kings 25:3	On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was sore in the city, so that there was no bread for the people of the land.
Kings 25:4	Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled by night by the way of the gate between the two walls, which was by the king's garden (now the Chaldeans were against the city round about); and the king went by the way of the Arabah.
Kings 25:5	But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, and overtook him in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was scattered from him.
Kings 25:6	Then they took the king, and carried him up unto the king of Babylon to Riblah; and they gave judgment upon him.
Kings 25:7	And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him in fetters, and carried him to Babylon.
Kings 25:8	Now in the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, which was the nineteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon, unto Jerusalem.
Kings 25:9	And he burnt the house of Jehovah, and the king's house; and all the houses of Jerusalem, even every great house, burnt he with fire.
Kings 25:10	And all the army of the Chaldeans, that were with the captain of the guard, brake down the walls of Jerusalem round about.
Kings 25:11	And the residue of the people that were left in the city, and those that fell away, that fell to the king of Babylon, and the residue of the multitude, did Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carry away captive.
Kings 25:12	But the captain of the guard left of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and husbandmen.
Kings 25:13	And the pillars of brass that were in the house of Jehovah, and the bases and the brazen sea that were in the house of Jehovah, did the Chaldeans break in pieces, and carried the brass of them to Babylon.
Kings 25:14	And the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the spoons, and all the vessels of brass wherewith they ministered, took they away.
Kings 25:15	And the firepans, and the basins, that which was of gold, in gold, and that which was of silver, in silver, the captain of the guard took away.
Kings 25:16	The two pillars, the one sea, and the bases, which Solomon had made for the house of Jehovah, the brass of all these vessels was without weight.
Kings 25:17	The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a capital of brass was upon it; and the height of the capital was three cubits, with network and pomegranates upon the capital round about, all of brass: and like unto these had the second pillar with network.
Kings 25:18	And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold:
Kings 25:19	and out of the city he took an officer that was set over the men of war; and five men of them that saw the king's face, who were found in the city; and the scribe, the captain of the host, who mustered the people of the land; and threescore men of the people of the land, that were found in the city.
Kings 25:20	And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and brought them to the king of Babylon to Riblah.
Kings 25:21	And the king of Babylon smote them, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away captive out of his land.
Kings 25:22	And as for the people that were left in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, even over them he made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, governor.
Kings 25:23	Now when all the captains of the forces, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men.
Kings 25:24	And Gedaliah sware to them and to their men, and said unto them, Fear not because of the servants of the Chaldeans: dwell in the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.
Kings 25:25	But it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the seed royal, came, and ten men with him, and smote Gedaliah, so that he died, and the Jews and the Chaldeans that were with him at Mizpah.
Kings 25:26	And all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the forces, arose, and came to Egypt; for they were afraid of the Chaldeans.
Kings 25:27	And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, that Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, did lift up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison;
Kings 25:28	and he spake kindly to him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings that were with him in Babylon,
Kings 25:29	and changed his prison garments. And Jehoiachin did eat bread before him continually all the days of his life:
Kings 25:30	and for his allowance, there was a continual allowance given him of the king, every day a portion, all the days of his life.
Chronicles 1:1	And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom, and Jehovah his God was with him, and magnified him exceedingly.
Chronicles 1:2	And Solomon spake unto all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every prince in all Israel, the heads of the fathers  houses .
Chronicles 1:3	So Solomon, and all the assembly with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon; for there was the tent of meeting of God, which Moses the servant of Jehovah had made in the wilderness.
Chronicles 1:4	But the ark of God had David brought up from Kiriath-jearim to the place that David had prepared for it; for he had pitched a tent for it at Jerusalem.
Chronicles 1:5	Moreover the brazen altar, that Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, was there before the tabernacle of Jehovah: and Solomon and the assembly sought unto it.
Chronicles 1:6	And Solomon went up thither to the brazen altar before Jehovah, which was at the tent of meeting, and offered a thousand burnt-offerings upon it.
Chronicles 1:7	In that night did God appear unto Solomon, and said unto him, Ask what I shall give thee.
Chronicles 1:8	And Solomon said unto God, Thou hast showed great lovingkindness unto David my father, and hast made me king in his stead.
Chronicles 1:9	Now, O Jehovah God, let thy promise unto David my father be established; for thou hast made me king over a people like the dust of the earth in multitude.
Chronicles 1:10	Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people; for who can judge this thy people, that is so great?
Chronicles 1:11	And God said to Solomon, Because this was in thy heart, and thou hast not asked riches, wealth, or honor, nor the life of them that hate thee, neither yet hast asked long life; but hast asked wisdom and knowledge for thyself, that thou mayest judge my people, over whom I have made thee king:
Chronicles 1:12	wisdom and knowledge is granted unto thee; and I will give thee riches, and wealth, and honor, such as none of the kings have had that have been before thee; neither shall there any after thee have the like.
Chronicles 1:13	So Solomon came from the high place that was at Gibeon, from before the tent of meeting, unto Jerusalem; and he reigned over Israel.
Chronicles 1:14	And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he placed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
Chronicles 1:15	And the king made silver and gold to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycomore-trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
Chronicles 1:16	And the horses which Solomon had were brought out of Egypt; the king's merchants received them in droves, each drove at a price.
Chronicles 1:17	And they fetched up and brought out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred'shekels of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty: and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of Syria, did they bring them out by their means.
Chronicles 2:1	Now Solomon purposed to build a house for the name of Jehovah, and a house for his kingdom.
Chronicles 2:2	And Solomon counted out threescore and ten thousand men to bear burdens, and fourscore thousand men that were hewers in the mountains, and three thousand and six hundred to oversee them.
Chronicles 2:3	And Solomon sent to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, As thou didst deal with David my father, and didst send him cedars to build him a house to dwell therein, even so deal with me .
Chronicles 2:4	Behold, I am about to build a house for the name of Jehovah my God, to dedicate it to him, and to burn before him incense of sweet spices, and for the continual showbread, and for the burnt-offerings morning and evening, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the set feasts of Jehovah our God. This is an ordinance for ever to Israel.
Chronicles 2:5	And the house which I build is great; for great is our God above all gods.
Chronicles 2:6	But who is able to build him a house, seeing heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him? who am I then, that I should build him a house, save only to burn incense before him?
Chronicles 2:7	Now therefore send me a man skilful to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in purple, and crimson, and blue, and that knoweth how to grave all manner of gravings, to be with the skilful men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, whom David my father did provide.
Chronicles 2:8	Send me also cedar-trees, fir-trees, and algum-trees, out of Lebanon; for I know that thy servants know how to cut timber in Lebanon: and, behold, my servants shall be with thy servants,
Chronicles 2:9	even to prepare me timber in abundance; for the house which I am about to build shall be great and wonderful.
Chronicles 2:10	And, behold, I will give to thy servants, the hewers that cut timber, twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, and twenty thousand measures of barley, and twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil.
Chronicles 2:11	Then Huram the king of Tyre answered in writing, which he sent to Solomon, Because Jehovah loveth his people, he hath made thee king over them.
Chronicles 2:12	Huram said moreover, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, that made heaven and earth, who hath given to David the king a wise son, endued with discretion and understanding, that should build a house for Jehovah, and a house for his kingdom.
Chronicles 2:13	And now I have sent a skilful man, endued with understanding, of Huram my father's,
Chronicles 2:14	the son of a woman of the daughters of Dan; and his father was a man of Tyre, skilful to work in gold, and in silver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, in blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson, also to grave any manner of graving, and to devise any device; that there may be a place appointed unto him with thy skilful men, and with the skilful men of my lord David thy father.
Chronicles 2:15	Now therefore the wheat and the barley, the oil and the wine, which my lord hath spoken of, let him send unto his servants:
Chronicles 2:16	and we will cut wood out of Lebanon, as much as thou shalt need; and we will bring it to thee in floats by sea to Joppa; and thou shalt carry it up to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 2:17	And Solomon numbered all the sojourners that were in the land of Israel, after the numbering wherewith David his father had numbered them; and they were found a hundred and fifty thousand and three thousand and six hundred.
Chronicles 2:18	And he set threescore and ten thousand of them to bear burdens, and fourscore thousand that were hewers in the mountains, and three thousand and six hundred overseers to set the people at work.
Chronicles 3:1	Then Solomon began to build the house of Jehovah at Jerusalem on mount Moriah, where Jehovah appeared unto David his father, which he made ready in the place that David had appointed, in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
Chronicles 3:2	And he began to build in the second day of the second month, in the fourth year of his reign.
Chronicles 3:3	Now these are the foundations which Solomon laid for the building of the house of God. The length by cubits after the first measure was threescore cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.
Chronicles 3:4	And the porch that was before the house , the length of it, according to the breadth of the house, was twenty cubits, and the height a hundred and twenty; and he overlaid it within with pure gold.
Chronicles 3:5	And the greater house he ceiled with fir-wood, which he overlaid with fine gold, and wrought thereon palm-trees and chains.
Chronicles 3:6	And he garnished the house with precious stones for beauty: and the gold was gold of Parvaim.
Chronicles 3:7	He overlaid also the house, the beams, the thresholds, and the walls thereof, and the doors thereof, with gold; and graved cherubim on the walls.
Chronicles 3:8	And he made the most holy house: the length thereof, according to the breadth of the house, was twenty cubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits; and he overlaid it with fine gold, amounting to six hundred talents.
Chronicles 3:9	And the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. And he overlaid the upper chambers with gold.
Chronicles 3:10	And in the most holy house he made two cherubim of image work; and they overlaid them with gold.
Chronicles 3:11	And the wings of the cherubim were twenty cubits long: the wing of the one cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house; and the other wing was likewise five cubits, reaching to the wing of the other cherub.
Chronicles 3:12	And the wing of the other cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house; and the other wing was five cubits also , joining to the wing of the other cherub.
Chronicles 3:13	The wings of these cherubim spread themselves forth twenty cubits: and they stood on their feet, and their faces were toward the house.
Chronicles 3:14	And he made the veil of blue, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen, and wrought cherubim thereon.
Chronicles 3:15	Also he made before the house two pillars of thirty and five cubits high, and the capital that was on the top of each of them was five cubits.
Chronicles 3:16	And he made chains in the oracle, and put them on the tops of the pillars; and he made a hundred pomegranates, and put them on the chains.
Chronicles 3:17	And he set up the pillars before the temple, one on the right hand, and the other on the left; and called the name of that on the right hand Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz.
Chronicles 4:1	Moreover he made an altar of brass, twenty cubits the length thereof, and twenty cubits the breadth thereof, and ten cubits the height thereof.
Chronicles 4:2	Also he made the molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in compass; and the height thereof was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits compassed it round about.
Chronicles 4:3	And under it was the likeness of oxen, which did compass it round about, for ten cubits, compassing the sea round about. The oxen were in two rows, cast when it was cast.
Chronicles 4:4	It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east: and the sea was set upon them above, and all their hinder parts were inward.
Chronicles 4:5	And it was a handbreadth thick; and the brim thereof was wrought like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily: it received and held three thousand baths.
Chronicles 4:6	He made also ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and five on the left, to wash in them; such things as belonged to the burnt-offering they washed in them; but the sea was for the priests to wash in.
Chronicles 4:7	And he made the ten candlesticks of gold according to the ordinance concerning them; and he set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.
Chronicles 4:8	He made also ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on the right side, and five on the left. And he made a hundred basins of gold.
Chronicles 4:9	Furthermore he made the court of the priests, and the great court, and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors of them with brass.
Chronicles 4:10	And he set the sea on the right side of the house eastward, toward the south.
Chronicles 4:11	And Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basins. So Huram made an end of doing the work that he wrought for king Solomon in the house of God:
Chronicles 4:12	the two pillars, and the bowls, and the two capitals which were on the top of the pillars, and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars,
Chronicles 4:13	and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks; two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were upon the pillars.
Chronicles 4:14	He made also the bases, and the lavers made he upon the bases;
Chronicles 4:15	one sea, and the twelve oxen under it.
Chronicles 4:16	The pots also, and the shovels, and the flesh-hooks, and all the vessels thereof, did Huram his father make for king Solomon for the house of Jehovah of bright brass.
Chronicles 4:17	In the plain of the Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah.
Chronicles 4:18	Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance: for the weight of the brass could not be found out.
Chronicles 4:19	And Solomon made all the vessels that were in the house of God, the golden altar also, and the tables whereon was the showbread;
Chronicles 4:20	and the candlesticks with their lamps, to burn according to the ordinance before the oracle, of pure gold;
Chronicles 4:21	and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, of gold, and that perfect gold;
Chronicles 4:22	and the snuffers, and the basins, and the spoons, and the firepans, of pure gold: and as for the entry of the house, the inner doors thereof for the most holy place, and the doors of the house, to wit , of the temple, were of gold.
Chronicles 5:1	Thus all the work that Solomon wrought for the house of Jehovah was finished. And Solomon brought in the things that David his father had dedicated, even the silver, and the gold, and all the vessels, and put them in the treasuries of the house of God.
Chronicles 5:2	Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the princes of the fathers  houses of the children of Israel, unto Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of the city of David, which is Zion.
Chronicles 5:3	nd all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the king at the feast, which was in the seventh month.
Chronicles 5:4	And all the elders of Israel came: and the Levites took up the ark;
Chronicles 5:5	and they brought up the ark, and the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tent; these did the priests the Levites bring up.
Chronicles 5:6	And king Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, that were assembled unto him, were before the ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen, that could not be counted nor numbered for multitude.
Chronicles 5:7	And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto its place, into the oracle of the house, to the most holy place, even under the wings of the cherubim.
Chronicles 5:8	For the cherubim spread forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and the staves thereof above.
Chronicles 5:9	And the staves were so long that the ends of the staves were seen from the ark before the oracle; but they were not seen without: and there it is unto this day.
Chronicles 5:10	There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses put there at Horeb, when Jehovah made a covenant with the children of Israel, when they came out of Egypt.
Chronicles 5:11	And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy place, (for all the priests that were present had sanctified themselves, and did not keep their courses;
Chronicles 5:12	also the Levites who were the singers, all of them, even Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun, and their sons and their brethren, arrayed in fine linen, with cymbals and psalteries and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them a hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets;)
Chronicles 5:13	it came to pass, when the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking Jehovah; and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music, and praised Jehovah,'saying , For he is good; for his lovingkindness endureth for ever; that then the house was filled with a cloud, even the house of Jehovah,
Chronicles 5:14	so that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud: for the glory of Jehovah filled the house of God.
Chronicles 6:1	Then spake Solomon, Jehovah hath said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
Chronicles 6:2	But I have built thee a house of habitation, and a place for thee to dwell in for ever.
Chronicles 6:3	And the king turned his face, and blessed all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood.
Chronicles 6:4	And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who spake with his mouth unto David my father, and hath with his hands fulfilled it, saying,
Chronicles 6:5	Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build a house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man to be prince over my people Israel:
Chronicles 6:6	but I have chosen Jerusalem, that my name might be there; and have chosen David to be over my people Israel.
Chronicles 6:7	Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Chronicles 6:8	But Jehovah said unto David my father, Whereas it was in thy heart to build a house for my name, thou didst well that it was in thy heart:
Chronicles 6:9	nevertheless thou shalt not build the house; but thy son that shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the house for my name.
Chronicles 6:10	And Jehovah hath performed his word that he spake; for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as Jehovah promised, and have built the house for the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Chronicles 6:11	And there have I set the ark, wherein is the covenant of Jehovah, which he made with the children of Israel.
Chronicles 6:12	And he stood before the altar of Jehovah in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands;
Chronicles 6:13	(for Solomon had made a brazen scaffold, five cubits long, and five cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court; and upon it he stood, and kneeled down upon his knees before all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven;)
Chronicles 6:14	and he said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, there is no God like thee, in heaven, or on earth; who keepest covenant and lovingkindness with thy servants, that walk before thee with all their heart;
Chronicles 6:15	who hast kept with thy servant David my father that which thou didst promise him: yea, thou spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thy hand, as it is this day.
Chronicles 6:16	Now therefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, keep with thy servant David my father that which thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not fail thee a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, if only thy children take heed to their way, to walk in my law as thou hast walked before me.
Chronicles 6:17	Now therefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, let thy word be verified, which thou spakest unto thy servant David.
Chronicles 6:18	But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less this house which I have builded!
Chronicles 6:19	Yet have thou respect unto the prayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O Jehovah my God, to hearken unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee;
Chronicles 6:20	that thine eyes may be open toward this house day and night, even toward the place whereof thou hast said that thou wouldest put thy name there; to hearken unto the prayer which thy servant shall pray toward this place.
Chronicles 6:21	And hearken thou to the supplications of thy servant, and of thy people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place: yea, hear thou from thy dwelling-place, even from heaven; and when thou hearest forgive.
Chronicles 6:22	If a man sin against his neighbor, and an oath be laid upon him to cause him to swear, and he come and'swear before thine altar in this house;
Chronicles 6:23	then hear thou from heaven, and do, and judge thy servants, requiting the wicked, to bring his way upon his own head; and justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.
Chronicles 6:24	And if thy people Israel be smitten down before the enemy, because they have sinned against thee, and shall turn again and confess thy name, and pray and make supplication before thee in this house;
Chronicles 6:25	then hear thou from heaven, and forgive the sin of thy people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest to them and to their fathers.
Chronicles 6:26	When the heavens are shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee; if they pray toward this place, and confess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou dost afflict them:
Chronicles 6:27	then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants, and of thy people Israel, when thou teachest them the good way wherein they should walk; and send rain upon thy land, which thou hast given to thy people for an inheritance.
Chronicles 6:28	If there be in the land famine, if there be pestilence, if there be blasting or mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their enemies besiege them in the land of their cities; whatsoever plague or whatsoever sickness there be;
Chronicles 6:29	what prayer and supplication soever be made by any man, or by all thy people Israel, who shall know every man his own plague and his own sorrow, and shall spread forth his hands toward this house:
Chronicles 6:30	then hear thou from heaven thy dwelling-place and forgive, and render unto every man according to all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou, even thou only, knowest the hearts of the children of men;)
Chronicles 6:31	that they may fear thee, to walk in thy ways, so long as they live in the land which thou gavest unto our fathers.
Chronicles 6:32	Moreover concerning the foreigner, that is not of thy people Israel, when he shall come from a far country for thy great name's sake, and thy mighty hand, and thine outstretched arm; when they shall come and pray toward this house:
Chronicles 6:33	then hear thou from heaven, even from thy dwelling-place, and do according to all that the foreigner calleth to thee for; that all the peoples of the earth may know thy name, and fear thee, as doth thy people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by thy name.
Chronicles 6:34	If thy people go out to battle against their enemies, by whatsoever way thou shalt send them, and they pray unto thee toward this city which thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name;
Chronicles 6:35	then hear thou from heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
Chronicles 6:36	If they sin against thee (for there is no man that sinneth not), and thou be angry with them, and deliver them to the enemy, so that they carry them away captive unto a land far off or near;
Chronicles 6:37	yet if they shall bethink themselves in the land whither they are carried captive, and turn again, and make supplication unto thee in the land of their captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done perversely, and have dealt wickedly;
Chronicles 6:38	if they return unto thee with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, whither they have carried them captive, and pray toward their land, which thou gavest unto their fathers, and the city which thou hast chosen, and toward the house which I have built for thy name:
Chronicles 6:39	then hear thou from heaven, even from thy dwelling-place, their prayer and their supplications, and maintain their cause, and forgive thy people who have sinned against thee.
Chronicles 6:40	Now, O my God, let, I beseech thee, thine eyes be open, and let thine ears be attent, unto the prayer that is made in this place.
Chronicles 6:41	Now therefore arise, O Jehovah God, into thy resting-place, thou, and the ark of thy strength: let thy priests, O Jehovah God, be clothed with salvation, and let thy saints rejoice in goodness.
Chronicles 6:42	O Jehovah God, turn not away the face of thine anointed: remember thy lovingkindnesses to David thy servant.
Chronicles 7:1	Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven, and consumed the burnt-offering and the sacrifices; and the glory of Jehovah filled the house.
Chronicles 7:2	And the priests could not enter into the house of Jehovah, because the glory of Jehovah filled Jehovah's house.
Chronicles 7:3	And all the children of Israel looked on, when the fire came down, and the glory of Jehovah was upon the house; and they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement, and worshipped, and gave thanks unto Jehovah,'saying , For he is good; for his lovingkindness endureth for ever.
Chronicles 7:4	Then the king and all the people offered sacrifice before Jehovah.
Chronicles 7:5	And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty and two thousand oxen, and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the people dedicated the house of God.
Chronicles 7:6	And the priests stood, according to their offices; the Levites also with instruments of music of Jehovah, which David the king had made to give thanks unto Jehovah, (for his lovingkindness endureth for ever,) when David praised by their ministry: and the priests sounded trumpets before them; and all Israel stood.
Chronicles 7:7	Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before the house of Jehovah; for there he offered the burnt-offerings, and the fat of the peace-offerings, because the brazen altar which Solomon had made was not able to receive the burnt-offering, and the meal-offering, and the fat.
Chronicles 7:8	So Solomon held the feast at that time seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath unto the brook of Egypt.
Chronicles 7:9	And on the eighth day they held a solemn assembly: for they kept the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days.
Chronicles 7:10	And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent the people away unto their tents, joyful and glad of heart for the goodness that Jehovah had showed unto David, and to Solomon, and to Israel his people.
Chronicles 7:11	Thus Solomon finished the house of Jehovah, and the king's house: and all that came into Solomon's heart to make in the house of Jehovah, and in his own house, he prosperously effected.
Chronicles 7:12	And Jehovah appeared to Solomon by night, and said unto him, I have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for a house of sacrifice.
Chronicles 7:13	If I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or if I command the locust to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people;
Chronicles 7:14	if my people, who are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land.
Chronicles 7:15	Now mine eyes shall be open, and mine ears attent, unto the prayer that is made in this place.
Chronicles 7:16	For now have I chosen and hallowed this house, that my name may be there for ever; and mine eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually.
Chronicles 7:17	And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me as David thy father walked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and wilt keep my statutes and mine ordinances;
Chronicles 7:18	then I will establish the throne of thy kingdom, according as I covenanted with David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel.
Chronicles 7:19	But if ye turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, and worship them;
Chronicles 7:20	then will I pluck them up by the roots out of my land which I have given them; and this house, which I have hallowed for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and I will make it a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
Chronicles 7:21	And this house, which is so high, every one that passeth by it shall be astonished, and shall say, Why hath Jehovah done thus unto this land, and to this house?
Chronicles 7:22	And they shall answer, Because they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other gods, and worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath he brought all this evil upon them.
Chronicles 8:1	And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomon had built the house of Jehovah, and his own house,
Chronicles 8:2	that the cities which Huram had given to Solomon, Solomon built them, and caused the children of Israel to dwell there.
Chronicles 8:3	And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah, and prevailed against it.
Chronicles 8:4	And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store-cities, which he built in Hamath.
Chronicles 8:5	Also he built Beth-horon the upper, and Beth-horon the nether, fortified cities, with walls, gates, and bars;
Chronicles 8:6	and Baalath, and all the store-cities that Solomon had, and all the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build for his pleasure in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
Chronicles 8:7	As for all the people that were left of the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, that were not of Israel;
Chronicles 8:8	of their children that were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel consumed not, of them did Solomon raise a levy of bondservants unto this day.
Chronicles 8:9	But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no servants for his work; but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, and rulers of his chariots and of his horsemen.
Chronicles 8:10	And these were the chief officers of king Solomon, even two hundred and fifty, that bare rule over the people.
Chronicles 8:11	And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of David unto the house that he had built for her; for he said, My wife shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the places are holy, whereunto the ark of Jehovah hath come.
Chronicles 8:12	Then Solomon offered burnt-offerings unto Jehovah on the altar of Jehovah, which he had built before the porch,
Chronicles 8:13	even as the duty of every day required, offering according to the commandment of Moses, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the set feasts, three times in the year, even in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.
Chronicles 8:14	And he appointed, according to the ordinance of David his father, the courses of the priests to their service, and the Levites to their offices, to praise, and to minister before the priests, as the duty of every day required; the doorkeepers also by their courses at every gate: for so had David the man of God commanded.
Chronicles 8:15	And they departed not from the commandment of the king unto the priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the treasures.
Chronicles 8:16	Now all the work of Solomon was prepared unto the day of the foundation of the house of Jehovah, and until it was finished.'so the house of Jehovah was completed.
Chronicles 8:17	Then went Solomon to Ezion-geber, and to Eloth, on the seashore in the land of Edom.
Chronicles 8:18	And Huram sent him by the hands of his servants ships, and servants that had knowledge of the sea; and they came with the servants of Solomon to Ophir, and fetched from thence four hundred and fifty talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.
Chronicles 9:1	And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to prove Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem, with a very great train, and camels that bare spices, and gold in abundance, and precious stones: and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart.
Chronicles 9:2	And Solomon told her all her questions; and there was not anything hid from Solomon which he told her not.
Chronicles 9:3	And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built,
Chronicles 9:4	and the food of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their apparel, his cupbearers also, and their apparel, and his ascent by which he went up unto the house of Jehovah; there was no more spirit in her.
Chronicles 9:5	And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in mine own land of thine acts, and of thy wisdom.
Chronicles 9:6	Howbeit I believed not their words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it; and, behold, the half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not told me: thou exceedest the fame that I heard.
Chronicles 9:7	Happy are thy men, and happy are these thy servants, that stand continually before thee, and hear thy wisdom.
Chronicles 9:8	Blessed be Jehovah thy God, who delighted in thee, to set thee on his throne, to be king for Jehovah thy God: because thy God loved Israel, to establish them for ever, therefore made he thee king over them, to do justice and righteousness.
Chronicles 9:9	And she gave the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and spices in great abundance, and precious stones: neither was there any such spice as the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.
Chronicles 9:10	And the servants also of Huram, and the servants of Solomon, that brought gold from Ophir, brought algum-trees and precious stones.
Chronicles 9:11	And the king made of the algum-trees terraces for the house of Jehovah, and for the king's house, and harps and psalteries for the singers: and there were none such seen before in the land of Judah.
Chronicles 9:12	And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatsoever she asked, besides that which she had brought unto the king. So she turned, and went to her own land, she and her servants.
Chronicles 9:13	Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred and threescore and six talents of gold,
Chronicles 9:14	besides that which the traders and merchants brought: and all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon.
Chronicles 9:15	And king Solomon made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold; six hundred'shekels of beaten gold went to one buckler.
Chronicles 9:16	And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three hundred'shekels of gold went to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.
Chronicles 9:17	Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it with pure gold.
Chronicles 9:18	nd there were six steps to the throne, with a footstool of gold, which were fastened to the throne, and stays on either side by the place of the seat, and two lions standing beside the stays.
Chronicles 9:19	And twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps: there was not the like made in any kingdom.
Chronicles 9:20	And all king Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold: silver was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon.
Chronicles 9:21	For the king had ships that went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram; once every three years came the ships of Tarshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.
Chronicles 9:22	So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom.
Chronicles 9:23	And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart.
Chronicles 9:24	And they brought every man his tribute, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and raiment, armor, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.
Chronicles 9:25	And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he bestowed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
Chronicles 9:26	And he ruled over all the kings from the River even unto the land of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt.
Chronicles 9:27	And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycomore-trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
Chronicles 9:28	And they brought horses for Solomon out of Egypt, and out of all lands.
Chronicles 9:29	Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, are they not written in the history of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat?
Chronicles 9:30	And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.
Chronicles 9:31	And Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 10:1	And Rehoboam went to Shechem; for all Israel were come to Shechem to make him king.
Chronicles 10:2	And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it, (for he was in Egypt, whither he had fled from the presence of king Solomon,) that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt.
Chronicles 10:3	And they sent and called him; and Jeroboam and all Israel came, and they spake to Rehoboam, saying,
Chronicles 10:4	Thy father made our yoke grievous: now therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and his heavy yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee.
Chronicles 10:5	And he said unto them, Come again unto me after three days. And the people departed.
Chronicles 10:6	And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men, that had stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel give ye me to return answer to this people?
Chronicles 10:7	And they spake unto him, saying, If thou be kind to this people, and please them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy servants for ever.
Chronicles 10:8	But he forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him, and took counsel with the young men that were grown up with him, that stood before him.
Chronicles 10:9	And he said unto them, What counsel give ye, that we may return answer to this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke that thy father did put upon us lighter?
Chronicles 10:10	And the young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou say unto the people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us; thus shalt thou say unto them, My little finger is thicker than my father's loins.
Chronicles 10:11	And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
Chronicles 10:12	So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king bade, saying, Come to me again the third day.
Chronicles 10:13	And the king answered them roughly; and king Rehoboam forsook the counsel of the old men,
Chronicles 10:14	and spake to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add thereto: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
Chronicles 10:15	So the king hearkened not unto the people; for it was brought about of God, that Jehovah might establish his word, which he spake by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
Chronicles 10:16	And when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David? neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: every man to your tents, O Israel: now see to thine own house, David. So all Israel departed unto their tents.
Chronicles 10:17	But as for the children of Israel that dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
Chronicles 10:18	Then king Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was over the men subject to taskwork; and the children of Israel stoned him to death with stones. And king Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 10:19	So Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.
Chronicles 11:1	And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he assembled the house of Judah and Benjamin, a hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men, that were warriors, to fight against Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam.
Chronicles 11:2	But the word of Jehovah came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
Chronicles 11:3	Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying,
Chronicles 11:4	Thus saith Jehovah, Ye shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren: return every man to his house; for this thing is of me. So they hearkened unto the words of Jehovah, and returned from going against Jeroboam.
Chronicles 11:5	And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence in Judah.
Chronicles 11:6	He built Beth-lehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,
Chronicles 11:7	And Beth-zur, and Soco, and Adullam,
Chronicles 11:8	and Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,
Chronicles 11:9	and Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah,
Chronicles 11:10	and Zorah, and Aijalon, and Hebron, which are in Judah and in Benjamin, fortified cities.
Chronicles 11:11	And he fortified the strongholds, and put captains in them, and stores of victuals, and oil and wine.
Chronicles 11:12	And in every city he put'shields and spears, and made them exceeding strong. And Judah and Benjamin belonged to him.
Chronicles 11:13	And the priests and the Levites that were in all Israel resorted to him out of all their border.
Chronicles 11:14	For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession, and came to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons cast them off, that they should not execute the priest's office unto Jehovah;
Chronicles 11:15	and he appointed him priests for the high places, and for the he-goats, and for the calves which he had made.
Chronicles 11:16	And after them, out of all the tribes of Israel, such as set their hearts to seek Jehovah, the God of Israel, came to Jerusalem to sacrifice unto Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
Chronicles 11:17	So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the son of Solomon strong, three years; for they walked three years in the way of David and Solomon.
Chronicles 11:18	And Rehoboam took him a wife, Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David, and of Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse;
Chronicles 11:19	and she bare him sons: Jeush, and Shemariah, and Zaham.
Chronicles 11:20	And after her he took Maacah the daughter of Absalom; and she bare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.
Chronicles 11:21	And Rehoboam loved Maacah the daughter of Absalom above all his wives and his concubines: (for he took eighteen wives, and threescore concubines, and begat twenty and eight sons and threescore daughters.)
Chronicles 11:22	And Rehoboam appointed Abijah the son of Maacah to be chief, even the prince among his brethren; for he was minded to make him king.
Chronicles 11:23	And he dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his sons throughout all the lands of Judah and Benjamin, unto every fortified city: and he gave them victuals in abundance. And he sought for them many wives.
Chronicles 12:1	And it came to pass, when the kingdom of Rehoboam was established, and he was strong, that he forsook the law of Jehovah, and all Israel with him.
Chronicles 12:2	And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they had trespassed against Jehovah,
Chronicles 12:3	with twelve hundred chariots, and threescore thousand horsemen. And the people were without number that came with him out of Egypt: the Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the Ethiopians.
Chronicles 12:4	And he took the fortified cities which pertained to Judah, and came unto Jerusalem.
Chronicles 12:5	Now Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam, and to the princes of Judah, that were gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, Ye have forsaken me, therefore have I also left you in the hand of Shishak.
Chronicles 12:6	Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves; and they said, Jehovah is righteous.
Chronicles 12:7	And when Jehovah saw that they humbled themselves, the word of Jehovah came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves: I will not destroy them; but I will grant them some deliverance, and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.
Chronicles 12:8	Nevertheless they shall be his servants, that they may know my service, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.
Chronicles 12:9	So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took away the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king's house: he took all away: he took away also the shields of gold which Solomon had made.
Chronicles 12:10	And king Rehoboam made in their stead shields of brass, and committed them to the hands of the captains of the guard, that kept the door of the king's house.
Chronicles 12:11	And it was so, that, as oft as the king entered into the house of Jehovah, the guard came and bare them, and brought them back into the guard-chamber.
Chronicles 12:12	And when he humbled himself, the wrath of Jehovah turned from him, so as not to destroy him altogether: and moreover in Judah there were good things found .
Chronicles 12:13	So king Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem, and reigned: for Rehoboam was forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which Jehovah had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there: and his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
Chronicles 12:14	And he did that which was evil, because he set not his heart to seek Jehovah.
Chronicles 12:15	Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written in the histories of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer, after the manner of genealogies? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually.
Chronicles 12:16	And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David: and Abijah his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 13:1	In the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam began Abijah to reign over Judah.
Chronicles 13:2	Three years reigned he in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Micaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam.
Chronicles 13:3	And Abijah joined battle with an army of valiant men of war, even four hundred thousand chosen men: and Jeroboam set the battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men, who were mighty men of valor.
Chronicles 13:4	And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in the hill-country of Ephraim, and said, Hear me, O Jeroboam and all Israel:
Chronicles 13:5	Ought ye not to know that Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave the kingdom over Israel to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of salt?
Chronicles 13:6	Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up, and rebelled against his lord.
Chronicles 13:7	And there were gathered unto him worthless men, base fellows, that strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon, when Rehoboam was young and tender-hearted, and could not withstand them.
Chronicles 13:8	And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of Jehovah in the hand of the sons of David; and ye are a great multitude, and there are with you the golden calves which Jeroboam made you for gods.
Chronicles 13:9	Have ye not driven out the priests of Jehovah, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and made you priests after the manner of the peoples of other lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himself with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest of them that are no gods.
Chronicles 13:10	But as for us, Jehovah is our God, and we have not forsaken him; and we have priests ministering unto Jehovah, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites in their work:
Chronicles 13:11	and they burn unto Jehovah every morning and every evening burnt-offerings and sweet incense: the showbread also'set they in order upon the pure table; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof, to burn every evening: for we keep the charge of Jehovah our God; but ye have forsaken him.
Chronicles 13:12	And, behold, God is with us at our head, and his priests with the trumpets of alarm to sound an alarm against you. O children of Israel, fight ye not against Jehovah, the God of your fathers; for ye shall not prosper.
Chronicles 13:13	But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come about behind them: so they were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them.
Chronicles 13:14	And when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before and behind them; and they cried unto Jehovah, and the priests sounded with the trumpets.
Chronicles 13:15	Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah shouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah.
Chronicles 13:16	And the children of Israel fled before Judah; and God delivered them into their hand.
Chronicles 13:17	And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: so there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.
Chronicles 13:18	Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and the children of Judah prevailed, because they relied upon Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
Chronicles 13:19	And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him, Beth-el with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof, and Ephron with the towns thereof.
Chronicles 13:20	Neither did Jeroboam recover strength again in the days of Abijah: and Jehovah smote him, and he died.
Chronicles 13:21	But Abijah waxed mighty, and took unto himself fourteen wives, and begat twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.
Chronicles 13:22	And the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways, and his sayings, are written in the commentary of the prophet Iddo.
Chronicles 14:1	So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land was quiet ten years.
Chronicles 14:2	And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of Jehovah his God:
Chronicles 14:3	for he took away the foreign altars, and the high places, and brake down the pillars, and hewed down the Asherim,
Chronicles 14:4	and commanded Judah to seek Jehovah, the God of their fathers, and to do the law and the commandment.
Chronicles 14:5	Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the sun-images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.
Chronicles 14:6	And he built fortified cities in Judah; for the land was quiet, and he had no war in those years, because Jehovah had given him rest.
Chronicles 14:7	For he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars; the land is yet before us, because we have sought Jehovah our God; we have sought him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and prospered.
Chronicles 14:8	And Asa had an army that bare bucklers and spears, out of Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shields and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were mighty men of valor.
Chronicles 14:9	And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an army of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and he came unto Mareshah.
Chronicles 14:10	Then Asa went out to meet him, and they set the battle in array in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.
Chronicles 14:11	And Asa cried unto Jehovah his God, and said, Jehovah, there is none besides thee to help, between the mighty and him that hath no strength: help us, O Jehovah our God; for we rely on thee, and in thy name are we come against this multitude. O Jehovah, thou art our God; let not man prevail against thee.
Chronicles 14:12	So Jehovah smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah; and the Ethiopians fled.
Chronicles 14:13	And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto Gerar: and there fell of the Ethiopians so many that they could not recover themselves; for they were destroyed before Jehovah, and before his host; and they carried away very much booty.
Chronicles 14:14	And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear of Jehovah came upon them: and they despoiled all the cities; for there was much spoil in them.
Chronicles 14:15	They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep in abundance, and camels, and returned to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 15:1	And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded:
Chronicles 15:2	and he went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin: Jehovah is with you, while ye are with him; and if ye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he will forsake you.
Chronicles 15:3	Now for a long season Israel was without the true God, and without a teaching priest, and without law:
Chronicles 15:4	But when in their distress they turned unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, and sought him, he was found of them.
Chronicles 15:5	And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, nor to him that came in; but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants of the lands.
Chronicles 15:6	And they were broken in pieces, nation against nation, and city against city; for God did vex them with all adversity.
Chronicles 15:7	But be ye strong, and let not your hands be slack; for your work shall be rewarded.
Chronicles 15:8	And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the prophet, he took courage, and put away the abominations out of all the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had taken from the hill-country of Ephraim; and he renewed the altar of Jehovah, that was before the porch of Jehovah.
Chronicles 15:9	And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and them that sojourned with them out of Ephraim and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for they fell to him out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that Jehovah his God was with him.
Chronicles 15:10	So they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the third month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.
Chronicles 15:11	And they sacrificed unto Jehovah in that day, of the spoil which they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.
Chronicles 15:12	And they entered into the covenant to seek Jehovah, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and with all their soul;
Chronicles 15:13	and that whosoever would not seek Jehovah, the God of Israel, should be put to death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.
Chronicles 15:14	And they sware unto Jehovah with a loud voice, and with shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.
Chronicles 15:15	And all Judah rejoiced at the oath; for they had sworn with all their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found of them: and Jehovah gave them rest round about.
Chronicles 15:16	And also Maacah, the mother of Asa the king, he removed from being queen, because she had made an abominable image for an Asherah; and Asa cut down her image, and made dust of it, and burnt it at the brook Kidron.
Chronicles 15:17	But the high places were not taken away out of Israel: nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.
Chronicles 15:18	And he brought into the house of God the things that his father had dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold, and vessels.
Chronicles 15:19	And there was no more war unto the five and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa.
Chronicles 16:1	In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he might not suffer any one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
Chronicles 16:2	Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of Jehovah and of the king's house, and sent to Ben-hadad king of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,
Chronicles 16:3	There is a league between me and thee, as there was between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent thee silver and gold; go, break thy league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.
Chronicles 16:4	And Ben-hadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abel-maim, and all the store-cities of Naphtali.
Chronicles 16:5	And it came to pass, when Baasha heard thereof, that he left off building Ramah, and let his work cease.
Chronicles 16:6	Then Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha had builded; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.
Chronicles 16:7	And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and said unto him, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria, and hast not relied on Jehovah thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Syria escaped out of thy hand.
Chronicles 16:8	Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubim a huge host, with chariots and horsemen exceeding many? yet, because thou didst rely on Jehovah, he delivered them into thy hand.
Chronicles 16:9	For the eyes of Jehovah run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to show himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. Herein thou hast done foolishly; for from henceforth thou shalt have wars.
Chronicles 16:10	Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in the prison-house; for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. And Asa oppressed some of the people at the same time.
Chronicles 16:11	And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
Chronicles 16:12	And in the thirty and ninth year of his reign Asa was diseased in his feet; his disease was exceeding great: yet in his disease he sought not to Jehovah, but to the physicians.
Chronicles 16:13	And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth year of his reign.
Chronicles 16:14	And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had hewn out for himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled with sweet odors and divers kinds of spices prepared by the perfumers art: and they made a very great burning for him.
Chronicles 17:1	And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened himself against Israel.
Chronicles 17:2	And he placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken.
Chronicles 17:3	And Jehovah was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father David, and sought not unto the Baalim,
Chronicles 17:4	but sought to the God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel.
Chronicles 17:5	Therefore Jehovah established the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah brought to Jehoshaphat tribute; and he had riches and honor in abundance.
Chronicles 17:6	And his heart was lifted up in the ways of Jehovah: and furthermore he took away the high places and the Asherim out of Judah.
Chronicles 17:7	Also in the third year of his reign he sent his princes, even Ben-hail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah;
Chronicles 17:8	and with them the Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests.
Chronicles 17:9	And they taught in Judah, having the book of the law of Jehovah with them; and they went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and taught among the people.
Chronicles 17:10	And the fear of Jehovah fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat.
Chronicles 17:11	And some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and silver for tribute; the Arabians also brought him flocks, seven thousand and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he-goats.
Chronicles 17:12	And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judah castles and cities of store.
Chronicles 17:13	And he had many works in the cities of Judah; and men of war, mighty men of valor, in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 17:14	And this was the numbering of them according to their fathers houses: Of Judah, the captains of thousands: Adnah the captain, and with him mighty men of valor three hundred thousand;
Chronicles 17:15	and next to him Jehohanan the captain, and with him two hundred and fourscore thousand;
Chronicles 17:16	and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself unto Jehovah; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valor.
Chronicles 17:17	And of Benjamin: Eliada a mighty man of valor, and with him two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield;
Chronicles 17:18	and next to him Jehozabad and with him a hundred and fourscore thousand ready prepared for war.
Chronicles 17:19	These were they that waited on the king, besides those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.
Chronicles 18:1	Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance; and he joined affinity with Ahab.
Chronicles 18:2	And after certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahab killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people that were with him, and moved him to go up with him to Ramoth-gilead.
Chronicles 18:3	And Ahab king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Wilt thou go with me to Ramoth-gilead? And he answered him, I am as thou art, and my people as thy people; and we will be with thee in the war.
Chronicles 18:4	And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Inquire first, I pray thee, for the word of Jehovah.
Chronicles 18:5	Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for God will deliver it into the hand of the king.
Chronicles 18:6	But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of Jehovah besides, that we may inquire of him?
Chronicles 18:7	And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Jehovah: but I hate him; for he never prophesieth good concerning me, but always evil: the same is Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.
Chronicles 18:8	Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.
Chronicles 18:9	Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah sat each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, and they were sitting in an open place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
Chronicles 18:10	And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron, and said, Thus saith Jehovah, With these shalt thou push the Syrians, until they be consumed.
Chronicles 18:11	And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and prosper; for Jehovah will deliver it into the hand of the king.
Chronicles 18:12	And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him, saying, Behold, the words of the prophets declare good to the king with one mouth: let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of theirs, and speak thou good.
Chronicles 18:13	And Micaiah said, As Jehovah liveth, what my God saith, that will I speak.
Chronicles 18:14	And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And he said, Go ye up, and prosper; and they shall be delivered into your hand.
Chronicles 18:15	And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou speak unto me nothing but the truth in the name of Jehovah?
Chronicles 18:16	And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd: and Jehovah said, These have no master; let them return every man to his house in peace.
Chronicles 18:17	And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?
Chronicles 18:18	And Micaiah'said, Therefore hear ye the word of Jehovah: I saw Jehovah sitting upon his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left.
Chronicles 18:19	And Jehovah said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one spake saying after this manner, and another saying after that manner.
Chronicles 18:20	And there came forth a spirit, and stood before Jehovah, and said, I will entice him. And Jehovah said unto him, Wherewith?
Chronicles 18:21	And he said, I will go forth, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, Thou shalt entice him, and shalt prevail also: go forth, and do so.
Chronicles 18:22	Now therefore, behold, Jehovah hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of these thy prophets; and Jehovah hath spoken evil concerning thee.
Chronicles 18:23	Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiah upon the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of Jehovah from me to speak unto thee?
Chronicles 18:24	And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see on that day, when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.
Chronicles 18:25	And the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him back unto Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son;
Chronicles 18:26	and say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I return in peace.
Chronicles 18:27	And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, Jehovah hath not spoken by me. And he said, Hear, ye peoples, all of you.
Chronicles 18:28	So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
Chronicles 18:29	And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and go into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. So the king of Israel disguised himself; and they went into the battle.
Chronicles 18:30	Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel.
Chronicles 18:31	And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they turned about to fight against him: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and Jehovah helped him; and God moved them to depart from him.
Chronicles 18:32	And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.
Chronicles 18:33	And a certain man drew his bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the armor: wherefore he said to the driver of the chariot, Turn thy hand, and carry me out of the host; for I am sore wounded.
Chronicles 18:34	And the battle increased that day: howbeit the king of Israel stayed himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even; and about the time of the going down of the sun he died.
Chronicles 19:1	And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned to his house in peace to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 19:2	And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and said to king Jehoshaphat, Shouldest thou help the wicked, and love them that hate Jehovah? for this thing wrath is upon thee from before Jehovah.
Chronicles 19:3	Nevertheless there are good things found in thee, in that thou hast put away the Asheroth out of the land, and hast set thy heart to seek God.
Chronicles 19:4	And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem: and he went out again among the people from Beer-sheba to the hill-country of Ephraim, and brought them back unto Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
Chronicles 19:5	And he set judges in the land throughout all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city,
Chronicles 19:6	and said to the judges, Consider what ye do: for ye judge not for man, but for Jehovah; and he is with you in the judgment.
Chronicles 19:7	Now therefore let the fear of Jehovah be upon you; take heed and do it: for there is no iniquity with Jehovah our God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of bribes.
Chronicles 19:8	Moreover in Jerusalem did Jehoshaphat set of the Levites and the priests, and of the heads of the fathers  houses of Israel, for the judgment of Jehovah, and for controversies. And they returned to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 19:9	And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of Jehovah, faithfully, and with a perfect heart.
Chronicles 19:10	And whensoever any controversy shall come to you from your brethren that dwell in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and ordinances, ye shall warn them, that they be not guilty towards Jehovah, and so wrath come upon you and upon your brethren: this do, and ye shall not be guilty.
Chronicles 19:11	And, behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters of Jehovah; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah, in all the king's matters: also the Levites shall be officers before you. Deal courageously, and Jehovah be with the good.
Chronicles 20:1	And it came to pass after this, that the children of Moab, and the children of Ammon, and with them some of the Ammonites, came against Jehoshaphat to battle.
Chronicles 20:2	Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometh a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea from Syria; and, behold, they are in Hazazon-tamar (the same is En-gedi).
Chronicles 20:3	And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek unto Jehovah; and he proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.
Chronicles 20:4	And Judah gathered themselves together, to seek help of Jehovah: even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek Jehovah.
Chronicles 20:5	And Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of Jehovah, before the new court;
Chronicles 20:6	and he said, O Jehovah, the God of our fathers, art not thou God in heaven? and art not thou ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations? and in thy hand is power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee.
Chronicles 20:7	Didst not thou, O our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel, and give it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for ever?
Chronicles 20:8	And they dwelt therein, and have built thee a sanctuary therein for thy name, saying,
Chronicles 20:9	If evil come upon us, the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house, and before thee, (for thy name is in this house,) and cry unto thee in our affliction, and thou wilt hear and save.
Chronicles 20:10	And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir, whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade, when they came out of the land of Egypt, but they turned aside from them, and destroyed them not;
Chronicles 20:11	behold, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of thy possession, which thou hast given us to inherit.
Chronicles 20:12	O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no might against this great company that cometh against us; neither know we what to do: but out eyes are upon thee.
Chronicles 20:13	And all Judah stood before Jehovah, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.
Chronicles 20:14	Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite, of the sons of Asaph, came the Spirit of Jehovah in the midst of the assembly;
Chronicles 20:15	and he said, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, and thou king Jehoshaphat: Thus saith Jehovah unto you, Fear not ye, neither be dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not yours, but God's.
Chronicles 20:16	To-morrow go ye down against them: behold, they come up by the ascent of Ziz; and ye shall find them at the end of the valley, before the wilderness of Jeruel.
Chronicles 20:17	Ye shall not need to fight in this battle : set yourselves, stand ye still, and see the salvation of Jehovah with you, O Judah and Jerusalem; fear not, nor be dismayed: to-morrow go out against them: for Jehovah is with you.
Chronicles 20:18	And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground; and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before Jehovah, worshipping Jehovah.
Chronicles 20:19	And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites and of the children of the Korahites, stood up to praise Jehovah, the God of Israel, with an exceeding loud voice.
Chronicles 20:20	And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem: believe in Jehovah your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper.
Chronicles 20:21	And when he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed them that should sing unto Jehovah, and give praise in holy array, as they went out before the army, and say, Give thanks unto Jehovah; for his lovingkindness endureth for ever.
Chronicles 20:22	And when they began to sing and to praise, Jehovah set liers-in-wait against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, that were come against Judah; and they were smitten.
Chronicles 20:23	For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the inhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy them: and when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, every one helped to destroy another.
Chronicles 20:24	And when Judah came to the watch-tower of the wilderness, they looked upon the multitude; and, behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and there were none that escaped.
Chronicles 20:25	And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take the spoil of them, they found among them in abundance both riches and dead bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away: and they were three days in taking the spoil, it was so much.
Chronicles 20:26	And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Beracah; for there they blessed Jehovah: therefore the name of that place was called The valley of Beracah unto this day.
Chronicles 20:27	Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat in the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem with joy; for Jehovah had made them to rejoice over their enemies.
Chronicles 20:28	And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries and harps and trumpets unto the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 20:29	And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of the countries, when they heard that Jehovah fought against the enemies of Israel.
Chronicles 20:30	So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet; for his God gave him rest round about.
Chronicles 20:31	And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: he was thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
Chronicles 20:32	And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah.
Chronicles 20:33	Howbeit the high places were not taken away; neither as yet had the people set their hearts unto the God of their fathers.
Chronicles 20:34	Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold, they are written in the history of Jehu the son of Hanani, which is inserted in the book of the kings of Israel.
Chronicles 20:35	And after this did Jehoshaphat king of Judah join himself with Ahaziah king of Israel; the same did very wickedly:
Chronicles 20:36	and he joined himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish; and they made the ships in Ezion-geber.
Chronicles 20:37	Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyself with Ahaziah, Jehovah hath destroyed thy works. And the ships were broken, so that they were not able to go to Tarshish.
Chronicles 21:1	And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David: and Jehoram his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 21:2	And he had brethren, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, and Jehiel, and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah; all these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel.
Chronicles 21:3	And their father gave them great gifts, of silver, and of gold, and of precious things, with fortified cities in Judah: but the kingdom gave he to Jehoram, because he was the first-born.
Chronicles 21:4	Now when Jehoram was risen up over the kingdom of his father, and had strengthened himself, he slew all his brethren with the sword, and divers also of the princes of Israel.
Chronicles 21:5	Jehoram was thirty and two years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 21:6	And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab; for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
Chronicles 21:7	Howbeit Jehovah would not destroy the house of David, because of the covenant that he had made with David, and as he promised to give a lamp to him and to his children alway.
Chronicles 21:8	In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and made a king over themselves.
Chronicles 21:9	Then Jehoram passed over with his captains, and all his chariots with him: and he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites that compassed him about, and the captains of the chariots.
Chronicles 21:10	So Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this day: then did Libnah revolt at the same time from under his hand, because he had forsaken Jehovah, the God of his fathers.
Chronicles 21:11	Moreover he made high places in the mountains of Judah, and made the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the harlot, and led Judah astray.
Chronicles 21:12	And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of David thy father, Because thou hast not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways of Asa king of Judah,
Chronicles 21:13	but hast walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and hast made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the harlot, like as the house of Ahab did, and also hast slain thy brethren of thy father's house, who were better than thyself:
Chronicles 21:14	behold, Jehovah will smite with a great plague thy people, and thy children, and thy wives, and all thy substance;
Chronicles 21:15	and thou shalt have great sickness by disease of thy bowels, until thy bowels fall out by reason of the sickness, day by day.
Chronicles 21:16	And Jehovah stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines, and of the Arabians that are beside the Ethiopians:
Chronicles 21:17	and they came up against Judah, and brake into it, and carried away all the substance that was found in the king's house, and his sons also, and his wives; so that there was never a son left him, save Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons.
Chronicles 21:18	And after all this Jehovah smote him in his bowels with an incurable disease.
Chronicles 21:19	And it came to pass, in process of time, at the end of two years, that his bowels fell out by reason of his sickness, and he died of sore diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like the burning of his fathers.
Chronicles 21:20	Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years: and he departed without being desired; and they buried him in the city of David, but not in the sepulchres of the kings.
Chronicles 22:1	And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest son king in his stead; for the band of men that came with the Arabians to the camp had slain all the eldest. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned.
Chronicles 22:2	Forty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign; and he reigned one year in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri.
Chronicles 22:3	He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab; for his mother was his counsellor to do wickedly.
Chronicles 22:4	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as did the house of Ahab; for they were his counsellors after the death of his father, to his destruction.
Chronicles 22:5	He walked also after their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead: and the Syrians wounded Joram.
Chronicles 22:6	And he returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which they had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Azariah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Jehoram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick.
Chronicles 22:7	Now the destruction of Ahaziah was of God, in that he went unto Joram: for when he was come, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of Nimshi, whom Jehovah had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab.
Chronicles 22:8	And it came to pass, when Jehu was executing judgment upon the house of Ahab, that he found the princes of Judah, and the sons of the brethren of Ahaziah, ministering to Ahaziah, and slew them.
Chronicles 22:9	And he sought Ahaziah, and they caught him (now he was hiding in Samaria), and they brought him to Jehu, and slew him; and they buried him, for they said, He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought Jehovah with all his heart. And the house of Ahaziah had no power to hold the kingdom.
Chronicles 22:10	Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal of the house of Judah.
Chronicles 22:11	But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of the king, took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away from among the king's sons that were slain, and put him and his nurse in the bedchamber. So Jehoshabeath, the daughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest (for she was the sister of Ahaziah), hid him from Athaliah, so that she slew him not.
Chronicles 22:12	And he was with them hid in the house of God six years: and Athaliah reigned over the land.
Chronicles 23:1	And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.
Chronicles 23:2	And they went about in Judah, and gathered the Levites out of all the cities of Judah, and the heads of fathers  houses of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 23:3	And all the assembly made a covenant with the king in the house of God. And he said unto them, Behold, the king's son shall reign, as Jehovah hath spoken concerning the sons of David.
Chronicles 23:4	This is the thing that ye shall do: a third part of you, that come in on the sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of the thresholds;
Chronicles 23:5	and a third part shall be at the king's house; and a third part at the gate of the foundation: and all the people shall be in the courts of the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 23:6	But let none come into the house of Jehovah, save the priests, and they that minister of the Levites; they shall come in, for they are holy: but all the people shall keep the charge of Jehovah.
Chronicles 23:7	And the Levites shall compass the king round about, every man with his weapons in his hand; and whosoever cometh into the house, let him be slain: and be ye with the king when he cometh in, and when he goeth out.
Chronicles 23:8	So the Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took every man his men, those that were to come in on the sabbath; with those that were to go out on the sabbath; for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.
Chronicles 23:9	And Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds the spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king David's, which were in the house of God.
Chronicles 23:10	And he set all the people, every man with his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, along by the altar and the house, by the king round about.
Chronicles 23:11	Then they brought out the king's son, and put the crown upon him, and gave him the testimony, and made him king: and Jehoiada and his sons anointed him; and they said, Long live the king.
Chronicles 23:12	And when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people into the house of Jehovah:
Chronicles 23:13	and she looked, and, behold, the king stood by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and the trumpets by the king; and all the people of the land rejoiced, and blew trumpets; the singers also played on instruments of music, and led the singing of praise. Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason! treason!
Chronicles 23:14	And Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds that were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth between the ranks; and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword: for the priest said, Slay her not in the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 23:15	So they made way for her; and she went to the entrance of the horse gate to the king's house: and they slew her there.
Chronicles 23:16	And Jehoiada made a covenant between himself, and all the people, and the king, that they should be Jehovah's people.
Chronicles 23:17	And all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake it down, and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.
Chronicles 23:18	And Jehoiada appointed the officers of the house of Jehovah under the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the house of Jehovah, to offer the burnt-offerings of Jehovah, as it is written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, according to the order of David.
Chronicles 23:19	And he set the porters at the gates of the house of Jehovah, that none that was unclean in anything should enter in.
Chronicles 23:20	And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought down the king from the house of Jehovah: and they came through the upper gate unto the king's house, and set the king upon the throne of the kingdom.
Chronicles 23:21	So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet. And Athaliah they had slain with the sword.
Chronicles 24:1	Joash was seven years old when he began to reign; and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Zibiah, of Beer-sheba.
Chronicles 24:2	And Joash did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah all the days of Jehoiada the priest.
Chronicles 24:3	And Jehoiada took for him two wives; and he begat sons and daughters.
Chronicles 24:4	And it came to pass after this, that Joash was minded to restore the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 24:5	And he gathered together the priests and the Levites, and said to them, Go out unto the cities of Judah, and gather of all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year; and see that ye hasten the matter. Howbeit the Levites hastened it not.
Chronicles 24:6	And the king called for Jehoiada the chief, and said unto him, Why hast thou not required of the Levites to bring in out of Judah and out of Jerusalem the tax of Moses the servant of Jehovah, and of the assembly of Israel, for the tent of the testimony?
Chronicles 24:7	For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had broken up the house of God; and also all the dedicated things of the house of Jehovah did they bestow upon the Baalim.
Chronicles 24:8	So the king commanded, and they made a chest, and set it without at the gate of the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 24:9	And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, to bring in for Jehovah the tax that Moses the servant of God laid upon Israel in the wilderness.
Chronicles 24:10	And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in, and cast into the chest, until they had made an end.
Chronicles 24:11	And it was so, that, at what time the chest was brought unto the king's officers by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw that there was much money, the king's scribe and the chief priest's officer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to its place again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in abundance.
Chronicles 24:12	And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the service of the house of Jehovah; and they hired masons and carpenters to restore the house of Jehovah, and also such as wrought iron and brass to repair the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 24:13	So the workmen wrought, and the work of repairing went forward in their hands, and they set up the house of God in its state, and strengthened it.
Chronicles 24:14	And when they had made an end, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada, whereof were made vessels for the house of Jehovah, even vessels wherewith to minister and to offer, and spoons, and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt-offerings in the house of Jehovah continually all the days of Jehoiada.
Chronicles 24:15	But Jehoiada waxed old and was full of days, and he died; a hundred and thirty years old was he when he died.
Chronicles 24:16	And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel, and toward God and his house.
Chronicles 24:17	Now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah, and made obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them.
Chronicles 24:18	And they forsook the house of Jehovah, the God of their fathers, and served the Asherim and the idols: and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this their guiltiness.
Chronicles 24:19	Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again unto Jehovah; and they testified against them: but they would not give ear.
Chronicles 24:20	And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest; and he stood above the people, and said unto them, Thus saith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of Jehovah, so that ye cannot prosper? because ye have forsaken Jehovah, he hath also forsaken you.
Chronicles 24:21	And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 24:22	Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiada his father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, he said, Jehovah look upon it, and require it.
Chronicles 24:23	And it came to pass at the end of the year, that the army of the Syrians came up against him: and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all the spoil of them unto the king of Damascus.
Chronicles 24:24	For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men; and Jehovah delivered a very great host into their hand, because they had forsaken Jehovah, the God of their fathers. So they executed judgment upon Joash.
Chronicles 24:25	And when they were departed for him (for they left him very sick), his own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his bed, and he died; and they buried him in the city of David, but they buried him not in the sepulchres of the kings.
Chronicles 24:26	And these are they that conspired against him: Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabitess.
Chronicles 24:27	Now concerning his sons, and the greatness of the burdens laid upon him, and the rebuilding of the house of God, behold, they are written in the commentary of the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 25:1	Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jehoaddan, of Jerusalem.
Chronicles 25:2	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, but not with a perfect heart.
Chronicles 25:3	Now it came to pass, when the kingdom was established unto him, that he slew his servants that had killed the king his father.
Chronicles 25:4	But he put not their children to death, but did according to that which is written in the law in the book of Moses, as Jehovah commanded, saying, The fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die for the fathers; but every man shall die for his own sin.
Chronicles 25:5	Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and ordered them according to their fathers houses, under captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, even all Judah and Benjamin: and he numbered them from twenty years old and upward, and found them three hundred thousand chosen men, able to go forth to war, that could handle spear and shield.
Chronicles 25:6	He hired also a hundred thousand mighty men of valor out of Israel for a hundred talents of silver.
Chronicles 25:7	But there came a man of God to him, saying, O king, let not the army of Israel go with thee; for Jehovah is not with Israel, to wit , with all the children of Ephraim.
Chronicles 25:8	But if thou wilt go, do valiantly , be strong for the battle: God will cast thee down before the enemy; for God hath power to help, and to cast down.
Chronicles 25:9	And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel? And the man of God answered, Jehovah is able to give thee much more than this.
Chronicles 25:10	Then Amaziah separated them, to wit , the army that was come to him out of Ephraim, to go home again: wherefore their anger was greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in fierce anger.
Chronicles 25:11	And Amaziah took courage, and led forth his people, and went to the Valley of Salt, and smote of the children of Seir ten thousand.
Chronicles 25:12	And other ten thousand did the children of Judah carry away alive, and brought them unto the top of the rock, and cast them down from the top of the rock, so that they all were broken in pieces.
Chronicles 25:13	But the men of the army whom Amaziah sent back, that they should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, from Samaria even unto Beth-horon, and smote of them three thousand, and took much spoil.
Chronicles 25:14	Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from the slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself before them, and burned incense unto them.
Chronicles 25:15	Wherefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Amaziah, and he sent unto him a prophet, who said unto him, Why hast thou sought after the gods of the people, which have not delivered their own people out of thy hand?
Chronicles 25:16	And it came to pass, as he talked with him, that the king'said unto him, Have we made thee of the king's counsel? forbear; why shouldest thou be smitten? Then the prophet forbare, and said, I know that God hath determined to destroy thee, because thou hast done this, and hast not hearkened unto my counsel.
Chronicles 25:17	Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the face.
Chronicles 25:18	And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trod down the thistle.
Chronicles 25:19	Thou sayest, Lo, thou hast smitten Edom; and thy heart lifteth thee up to boast: abide now at home; why shouldest thou meddle to thy hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with thee?
Chronicles 25:20	But Amaziah would not hear; for it was of God, that he might deliver them into the hand of their enemies , because they had sought after the gods of Edom.
Chronicles 25:21	So Joash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in the face at Beth-shemesh, which belongeth to Judah.
Chronicles 25:22	And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled every man to his tent.
Chronicles 25:23	And Joash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth-shemesh, and brought him to Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim unto the corner gate, four hundred cubits.
Chronicles 25:24	And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obed-edom, and the treasures of the king's house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.
Chronicles 25:25	And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
Chronicles 25:26	Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, are they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?
Chronicles 25:27	Now from the time that Amaziah did turn away from following Jehovah they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to Lachish: but they sent after him to Lachish, and slew him there.
Chronicles 25:28	And they brought him upon horses, and buried him with his fathers in the city of Judah.
Chronicles 26:1	And all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.
Chronicles 26:2	He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the king slept with his fathers.
Chronicles 26:3	Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign; and he reigned fifty and two years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jechiliah, of Jerusalem.
Chronicles 26:4	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
Chronicles 26:5	And he set himself to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the vision of God: and as long as he sought Jehovah, God made him to prosper.
Chronicles 26:6	And he went forth and warred against the Philistines, and brake down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod; and he built cities in the country of Ashdod, and among the Philistines.
Chronicles 26:7	And God helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians that dwelt in Gur-baal, and the Meunim.
Chronicles 26:8	And the Ammonites gave tribute to Uzziah: and his name spread abroad even to the entrance of Egypt; for he waxed exceeding strong.
Chronicles 26:9	Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and at the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall , and fortified them.
Chronicles 26:10	And he built towers in the wilderness, and hewed out many cisterns, for he had much cattle; in the lowland also, and in the plain: and he had husbandmen and vinedressers in the mountains and in the fruitful fields; for he loved husbandry.
Chronicles 26:11	Moreover Uzziah had an army of fighting men, that went out to war by bands, according to the number of their reckoning made by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king's captains.
Chronicles 26:12	The whole number of the heads of fathers  houses , even the mighty men of valor, was two thousand and six hundred.
Chronicles 26:13	And under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and seven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy.
Chronicles 26:14	And Uzziah prepared for them, even for all the host, shields, and spears, and helmets, and coats of mail, and bows, and stones for slinging.
Chronicles 26:15	And he made in Jerusalem engines, invented by skilful men, to be on the towers and upon the battlements, wherewith to shoot arrows and great stones. And his name spread far abroad; for he was marvellously helped, till he was strong.
Chronicles 26:16	But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up, so that he did corruptly, and he trespassed against Jehovah his God; for he went into the temple of Jehovah to burn incense upon the altar of incense.
Chronicles 26:17	And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him fourscore priests of Jehovah, that were valiant men:
Chronicles 26:18	and they withstood Uzziah the king, and said unto him, It pertaineth not unto thee, Uzziah, to burn incense unto Jehovah, but to the priests the sons of Aaron, that are consecrated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary; for thou hast trespassed; neither shall it be for thine honor from Jehovah God.
Chronicles 26:19	Then Uzziah was wroth; and he had a censer in his hand to burn incense; and while he was wroth with the priests, the leprosy brake forth in his forehead before the priests in the house of Jehovah, beside the altar of incense.
Chronicles 26:20	And Azariah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked upon him, and, behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him out quickly from thence; yea, himself hasted also to go out, because Jehovah had smitten him.
Chronicles 26:21	And Uzziah the king was a leper unto the day of his death, and dwelt in a separate house, being a leper; for he was cut off from the house of Jehovah: and Jotham his son was over the king's house, judging the people of the land.
Chronicles 26:22	Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, did Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, write.
Chronicles 26:23	So Uzziah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in the field of burial which belonged to the kings; for they said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 27:1	Jotham was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok.
Chronicles 27:2	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that his father Uzziah had done: howbeit he entered not into the temple of Jehovah. And the people did yet corruptly.
Chronicles 27:3	He built the upper gate of the house of Jehovah, and on the wall of Ophel he built much.
Chronicles 27:4	Moreover he built cities in the hill-country of Judah, and in the forests he built castles and towers.
Chronicles 27:5	He fought also with the king of the children of Ammon, and prevailed against them. And the children of Ammon gave him the same year a hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten thousand of barley. So much did the children of Ammon render unto him, in the second year also, and in the third.
Chronicles 27:6	So Jotham became mighty, because he ordered his ways before Jehovah his God.
Chronicles 27:7	Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and his ways, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.
Chronicles 27:8	He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 27:9	And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 28:1	Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and he did not that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, like David his father;
Chronicles 28:2	but he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and made also molten images for the Baalim.
Chronicles 28:3	Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and burnt his children in the fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom Jehovah cast out before the children of Israel.
Chronicles 28:4	And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.
Chronicles 28:5	Wherefore Jehovah his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Syria; and they smote him, and carried away of his a great multitude of captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who smote him with a great slaughter.
Chronicles 28:6	For Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah a hundred and twenty thousand in one day, all of them valiant men; because they had forsaken Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
Chronicles 28:7	And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the king's son, and Azrikam the ruler of the house, and Elkanah that was next to the king.
Chronicles 28:8	And the children of Israel carried away captive of their brethren two hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and took also away much spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria.
Chronicles 28:9	But a prophet of Jehovah was there, whose name was Oded: and he went out to meet the host that came to Samaria, and said unto them, Behold, because Jehovah, the God of your fathers, was wroth with Judah, he hath delivered them into your hand, and ye have slain them in a rage which hath reached up to heaven.
Chronicles 28:10	And now ye purpose to keep under the children of Judah and Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen unto you: but are there not even with you trespasses of your own against Jehovah your God?
Chronicles 28:11	Now hear me therefore, and send back the captives, that ye have taken captive of your brethren; for the fierce wrath of Jehovah is upon you.
Chronicles 28:12	Then certain of the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against them that came from the war,
Chronicles 28:13	and said unto them, Ye shall not bring in the captives hither: for ye purpose that which will bring upon us a trespass against Jehovah, to add unto our sins and to our trespass; for our trespass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.
Chronicles 28:14	So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the princes and all the assembly.
Chronicles 28:15	And the men that have been mentioned by name rose up, and took the captives, and with the spoil clothed all that were naked among them, and arrayed them, and shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink, and anointed them, and carried all the feeble of them upon asses, and brought them to Jericho, the city of palm-trees, unto their brethren: then they returned to Samaria.
Chronicles 28:16	At that time did king Ahaz send unto the kings of Assyria to help him.
Chronicles 28:17	For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah, and carried away captives.
Chronicles 28:18	The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the lowland, and of the South of Judah, and had taken Beth-shemesh, and Aijalon, and Gederoth, and Soco with the towns thereof, and Timnah with the towns thereof, Gimzo also and the towns thereof: and they dwelt there.
Chronicles 28:19	For Jehovah brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel; for he had dealt wantonly in Judah, and trespassed sore against Jehovah.
Chronicles 28:20	And Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria came unto him, and distressed him, but strengthened him not.
Chronicles 28:21	For Ahaz took away a portion out of the house of Jehovah, and out of the house of the king and of the princes, and gave it unto the king of Assyria: but it helped him not.
Chronicles 28:22	And in the time of his distress did he trespass yet more against Jehovah, this same king Ahaz.
Chronicles 28:23	For he sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus, which smote him; and he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, therefore will I sacrifice to them, that they may help me. But they were the ruin of him, and of all Israel.
Chronicles 28:24	And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors of the house of Jehovah; and he made him altars in every corner of Jerusalem.
Chronicles 28:25	And in every city of Judah he made high places to burn incense unto other gods, and provoked to anger Jehovah, the God of his fathers.
Chronicles 28:26	Now the rest of his acts, and all his ways, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
Chronicles 28:27	And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, even in Jerusalem; for they brought him not into the sepulchres of the kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 29:1	Hezekiah began to reign when he was five and twenty years old; and he reigned nine and twenty years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.
Chronicles 29:2	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that David his father had done.
Chronicles 29:3	He in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened the doors of the house of Jehovah, and repaired them.
Chronicles 29:4	And he brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them together into the broad place on the east,
Chronicles 29:5	and said unto them, Hear me, ye Levites; now sanctify yourselves, and sanctify the house of Jehovah, the God of your fathers, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy place.
Chronicles 29:6	For our fathers have trespassed, and done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah our God, and have forsaken him, and have turned away their faces from the habitation of Jehovah, and turned their backs.
Chronicles 29:7	Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out the lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt-offerings in the holy place unto the God of Israel.
Chronicles 29:8	Wherefore the wrath of Jehovah was upon Judah and Jerusalem, and he hath delivered them to be tossed to and fro, to be an astonishment, and a hissing, as ye see with your eyes.
Chronicles 29:9	For, lo, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this.
Chronicles 29:10	Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with Jehovah, the God of Israel, that his fierce anger may turn away from us.
Chronicles 29:11	My sons, be not now negligent; for Jehovah hath chosen you to stand before him, to minister unto him, and that ye should be his ministers, and burn incense.
Chronicles 29:12	Then the Levites arose, Mahath, the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites; and of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; and of the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah;
Chronicles 29:13	and of the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeuel; and of the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah;
Chronicles 29:14	and of the sons of Heman, Jehuel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel.
Chronicles 29:15	And they gathered their brethren, and sanctified themselves, and went in, according to the commandment of the king by the words of Jehovah, to cleanse the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 29:16	And the priests went in unto the inner part of the house of Jehovah, to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that they found in the temple of Jehovah into the court of the house of Jehovah. And the Levites took it, to carry it out abroad to the brook Kidron.
Chronicles 29:17	Now they began on the first day of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of Jehovah; and they sanctified the house of Jehovah in eight days: and on the sixteenth day of the first month they made an end.
Chronicles 29:18	Then they went in to Hezekiah the king within the palace , and said, We have cleansed all the house of Jehovah, and the altar of burnt-offering, with all the vessels thereof, and the table of showbread, with all the vessels thereof.
Chronicles 29:19	Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign did cast away when he trespassed, have we prepared and sanctified; and, behold, they are before the altar of Jehovah.
Chronicles 29:20	Then Hezekiah the king arose early, and gathered the princes of the city, and went up to the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 29:21	And they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and seven lambs, and seven he-goats, for a sin-offering for the kingdom and for the sanctuary and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons of Aaron to offer them on the altar of Jehovah.
Chronicles 29:22	So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood, and sprinkled it on the altar: and they killed the rams, and sprinkled the blood upon the altar: they killed also the lambs, and sprinkled the blood upon the altar.
Chronicles 29:23	And they brought near the he-goats for the sin-offering before the king and the assembly; and they laid their hands upon them:
Chronicles 29:24	and the priests killed them, and they made a sin-offering with their blood upon the altar, to make atonement for all Israel; for the king commanded that the burnt-offering and the sin-offering'should be made for all Israel.
Chronicles 29:25	And he set the Levites in the house of Jehovah with cymbals, with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment of David, and of Gad the king's seer, and Nathan the prophet; for the commandment was of Jehovah by his prophets.
Chronicles 29:26	And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets.
Chronicles 29:27	And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt-offering upon the altar. And when the burnt-offering began, the song of Jehovah began also, and the trumpets, together with the instruments of David king of Israel.
Chronicles 29:28	And all the assembly worshipped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded; all this continued until the burnt-offering was finished.
Chronicles 29:29	And when they had made an end of offering, the king and all that were present with him bowed themselves and worshipped.
Chronicles 29:30	Moreover Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praises unto Jehovah with the words of David, and of Asaph the seer. And they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshipped.
Chronicles 29:31	Then Hezekiah answered and said, Now ye have consecrated yourselves unto Jehovah; come near and bring sacrifices and thank-offerings into the house of Jehovah. And the assembly brought in sacrifices and thank-offerings; and as many as were of a willing heart brought burnt-offerings.
Chronicles 29:32	And the number of the burnt-offerings which the assembly brought was threescore and ten bullocks, a hundred rams, and two hundred lambs: all these were for a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
Chronicles 29:33	And the consecrated things were six hundred oxen and three thousand sheep.
Chronicles 29:34	But the priests were too few, so that they could not flay all the burnt-offerings: wherefore their brethren the Levites did help them, till the work was ended, and until the priests had sanctified themselves; for the Levites were more upright in heart to sanctify themselves than the priests.
Chronicles 29:35	And also the burnt-offerings were in abundance, with the fat of the peace-offerings, and with the drink-offerings for every burnt-offering. So the service of the house of Jehovah was set in order.
Chronicles 29:36	And Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people, because of that which God had prepared for the people: for the thing was done suddenly.
Chronicles 30:1	And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of Jehovah at Jerusalem, to keep the passover unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Chronicles 30:2	For the king had taken counsel, and his princes, and all the assembly in Jerusalem, to keep the passover in the second month.
Chronicles 30:3	For they could not keep it at that time, because the priests had not sanctified themselves in sufficient number, neither had the people gathered themselves together to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 30:4	And the thing was right in the eyes of the king and of all the assembly.
Chronicles 30:5	So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beer-sheba even to Dan, that they should come to keep the passover unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem: for they had not kept it in great numbers in such sort as it is written.
Chronicles 30:6	So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of the king, saying, Ye children of Israel, turn again unto Jehovah, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, that he may return to the remnant that are escaped of you out of the hand of the kings of Assyria.
Chronicles 30:7	And be not ye like your fathers, and like your brethren, who trespassed against Jehovah, the God of their fathers, so that he gave them up to desolation, as ye see.
Chronicles 30:8	Now be ye not stiffnecked, as your fathers were; but yield yourselves unto Jehovah, and enter into his sanctuary, which he hath sanctified for ever, and serve Jehovah your God, that his fierce anger may turn away from you.
Chronicles 30:9	For if ye turn again unto Jehovah, your brethren and your children shall find compassion before them that led them captive, and shall come again into this land: for Jehovah your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if ye return unto him.
Chronicles 30:10	So the posts passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, even unto Zebulun: but they laughed them to scorn, and mocked them.
Chronicles 30:11	Nevertheless certain men of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 30:12	Also upon Judah came the hand of God to give them one heart, to do the commandment of the king and of the princes by the word of Jehovah.
Chronicles 30:13	And there assembled at Jerusalem much people to keep the feast of unleavened bread in the second month, a very great assembly.
Chronicles 30:14	And they arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem, and all the altars for incense took they away, and cast them into the brook Kidron.
Chronicles 30:15	Then they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the second month: and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, and sanctified themselves, and brought burnt-offerings into the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 30:16	And they stood in their place after their order, according to the law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkled the blood which they received of the hand of the Levites.
Chronicles 30:17	For there were many in the assembly that had not sanctified themselves: therefore the Levites had the charge of killing the passovers for every one that was not clean, to sanctify them unto Jehovah.
Chronicles 30:18	For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim and Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet did they eat the passover otherwise than it is written. For Hezekiah had prayed for them, saying, The good Jehovah pardon every one
Chronicles 30:19	that setteth his heart to seek God, Jehovah, the God of his fathers, though he be not cleansed according to the purification of the sanctuary.
Chronicles 30:20	And Jehovah hearkened to Hezekiah, and healed the people.
Chronicles 30:21	And the children of Israel that were present at Jerusalem kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness; and the Levites and the priests praised Jehovah day by day,'singing with loud instruments unto Jehovah.
Chronicles 30:22	And Hezekiah spake comfortably unto all the Levites that had good understanding in the service of Jehovah. So they did eat throughout the feast for the seven days, offering sacrifices of peace-offerings, and making confession to Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
Chronicles 30:23	And the whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days; and they kept other'seven days with gladness.
Chronicles 30:24	For Hezekiah king of Judah did give to the assembly for offerings a thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep; and the princes gave to the assembly a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep: and a great number of priests sanctified themselves.
Chronicles 30:25	And all the assembly of Judah, with the priests and the Levites, and all the assembly that came out of Israel, and the sojourners that came out of the land of Israel, and that dwelt in Judah, rejoiced.
Chronicles 30:26	So there was great joy in Jerusalem; for since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel there was not the like in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 30:27	Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people: and their voice was heard, and their prayer came up to his holy habitation, even unto heaven.
Chronicles 31:1	Now when all this was finished, all Israel that were present went out to the cities of Judah, and brake in pieces the pillars, and hewed down the Asherim, and brake down the high places and the altars out of all Judah and Benjamin, in Ephraim also and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned, every man to his possession, into their own cities.
Chronicles 31:2	And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the priests and the Levites after their courses, every man according to his service, both the priests and the Levites, for burnt-offerings and for peace-offerings, to minister, and to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the camp of Jehovah.
Chronicles 31:3	He appointed also the king's portion of his substance for the burnt-offerings, to wit , for the morning and evening burnt-offerings, and the burnt-offerings for the sabbaths, and for the new moons, and for the set feasts, as it is written in the law of Jehovah.
Chronicles 31:4	Moreover he commanded the people that dwelt in Jerusalem to give the portion of the priests and the Levites, that they might give themselves to the law of Jehovah.
Chronicles 31:5	And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel gave in abundance the first-fruits of grain, new wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all things brought they in abundantly.
Chronicles 31:6	And the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt in the cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of dedicated things which were consecrated unto Jehovah their God, and laid them by heaps.
Chronicles 31:7	In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month.
Chronicles 31:8	And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed Jehovah, and his people Israel.
Chronicles 31:9	Then Hezekiah questioned the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps.
Chronicles 31:10	And Azariah the chief priest, of the house of Zadok, answered him and said, Since the people began to bring the oblations into the house of Jehovah, we have eaten and had enough, and have left plenty: for Jehovah hath blessed his people; and that which is left is this great store.
Chronicles 31:11	Then Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of Jehovah; and they prepared them.
Chronicles 31:12	And they brought in the oblations and the tithes and the dedicated things faithfully: and over them Conaniah the Levite was ruler, and Shimei his brother was second.
Chronicles 31:13	And Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth, and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, were overseers under the hand of Conaniah and Shimei his brother, by the appointment of Hezekiah the king, and Azariah the ruler of the house of God.
Chronicles 31:14	And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the porter at the east gate , was over the freewill-offerings of God, to distribute the oblations of Jehovah, and the most holy things.
Chronicles 31:15	And under him were Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, in their office of trust, to give to their brethren by courses, as well to the great as to the small:
Chronicles 31:16	besides them that were reckoned by genealogy of males, from three years old and upward, even every one that entered into the house of Jehovah, as the duty of every day required, for their service in their offices according to their courses;
Chronicles 31:17	and them that were reckoned by genealogy of the priests by their fathers houses, and the Levites from twenty years old and upward, in their offices by their courses;
Chronicles 31:18	and them that were reckoned by genealogy of all their little ones, their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, through all the congregation: for in their office of trust they sanctified themselves in holiness.
Chronicles 31:19	Also for the sons of Aaron the priests, that were in the fields of the suburbs of their cities, in every city, there were men that were mentioned by name, to give portions to all the males among the priests, and to all that were reckoned by genealogy among the Levites.
Chronicles 31:20	And thus did Hezekiah throughout all Judah; and he wrought that which was good and right and faithful before Jehovah his God.
Chronicles 31:21	And in every work that he began in the service of the house of God, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart, and prospered.
Chronicles 32:1	After these things, and this faithfulness, Sennacherib king of Assyria came, and entered into Judah, and encamped against the fortified cities, and thought to win them for himself.
Chronicles 32:2	And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem,
Chronicles 32:3	he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city; and they helped him.
Chronicles 32:4	So there was gathered much people together, and they stopped all the fountains, and the brook that flowed through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water?
Chronicles 32:5	And he took courage, and built up all the wall that was broken down, and raised it up to the towers, and the other wall without, and strengthened Millo in the city of David, and made weapons and shields in abundance.
Chronicles 32:6	And he set captains of war over the people, and gathered them together to him in the broad place at the gate of the city, and spake comfortably to them, saying,
Chronicles 32:7	Be strong and of good courage, be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude that is with him; for there is a greater with us than with him:
Chronicles 32:8	with him is an arm of flesh; but with us is Jehovah our God to help us, and to fight our battles. And the people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.
Chronicles 32:9	After this did Sennacherib king of Assyria send his servants to Jerusalem, (now he was before Lachish, and all his power with him,) unto Hezekiah king of Judah, and unto all Judah that were at Jerusalem, saying,
Chronicles 32:10	Thus saith Sennacherib king of Assyria, Whereon do ye trust, that ye abide the siege in Jerusalem?
Chronicles 32:11	Doth not Hezekiah persuade you, to give you over to die by famine and by thirst, saying, Jehovah our God will deliver us out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
Chronicles 32:12	Hath not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall worship before one altar, and upon it shall ye burn incense?
Chronicles 32:13	Know ye not what I and my fathers have done unto all the peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of the lands in any wise able to deliver their land out of my hand?
Chronicles 32:14	Who was there among all the gods of those nations which my fathers utterly destroyed, that could deliver his people out of my hand, that your God should be able to deliver you out of my hand?
Chronicles 32:15	Now therefore let not Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you after this manner, neither believe ye him; for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people out of my hand, and out of the hand of my fathers: how much less shall your God deliver you out of my hand?
Chronicles 32:16	And his servants spake yet more against Jehovah God, and against his servant Hezekiah.
Chronicles 32:17	He wrote also letters, to rail on Jehovah, the God of Israel, and to speak against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of the lands, which have not delivered their people out of my hand, so shall not the God of Hezekiah deliver his people out of my hand.
Chronicles 32:18	And they cried with a loud voice in the Jews language unto the people of Jerusalem that were on the wall, to affright them, and to trouble them; that they might take the city.
Chronicles 32:19	And they spake of the God of Jerusalem, as of the gods of the peoples of the earth, which are the work of men's hands.
Chronicles 32:20	And Hezekiah the king, and Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz, prayed because of this, and cried to heaven.
Chronicles 32:21	And Jehovah sent an angel, who cut off all the mighty men of valor, and the leaders and captains, in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when he was come into the house of his god, they that came forth from his own bowels slew him there with the sword.
Chronicles 32:22	Thus Jehovah saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria, and from the hand of all others , and guided them on every side.
Chronicles 32:23	And many brought gifts unto Jehovah to Jerusalem, and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah; so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations from thenceforth.
Chronicles 32:24	In those days Hezekiah was sick even unto death: and he prayed unto Jehovah; and he spake unto him, and gave him a sign.
Chronicles 32:25	But Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit done unto him; for his heart was lifted up: therefore there was wrath upon him, and upon Judah and Jerusalem.
Chronicles 32:26	Notwithstanding Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of Jehovah came not upon them in the days of Hezekiah.
Chronicles 32:27	And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honor: and he provided him treasuries for silver, and for gold, and for precious stones, and for spices, and for shields, and for all manner of goodly vessels;
Chronicles 32:28	store-houses also for the increase of grain and new wine and oil; and stalls for all manner of beasts, and flocks in folds.
Chronicles 32:29	Moreover he provided him cities, and possessions of flocks and herds in abundance; for God had given him very much substance.
Chronicles 32:30	This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper spring of the waters of Gihon, and brought them straight down on the west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works.
Chronicles 32:31	Howbeit in the business of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon, who sent unto him to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land, God left him, to try him, that he might know all that was in his heart.
Chronicles 32:32	Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and his good deeds, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz, in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
Chronicles 32:33	And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the ascent of the sepulchres of the sons of David: and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honor at his death. And Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 33:1	Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign; and he reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 33:2	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, after the abominations of the nations whom Jehovah cast out before the children of Israel.
Chronicles 33:3	For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down; and he reared up altars for the Baalim, and made Asheroth, and worshipped all the host of heaven, and served them.
Chronicles 33:4	And he built altars in the house of Jehovah, whereof Jehovah said, In Jerusalem shall my name be for ever.
Chronicles 33:5	And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 33:6	He also made his children to pass through the fire in the valley of the son of Hinnom; and he practised augury, and used enchantments, and practised sorcery, and dealt with them that had familiar spirits, and with wizards: he wrought much evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger.
Chronicles 33:7	And he set the graven image of the idol, which he had made, in the house of God, of which God said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever:
Chronicles 33:8	neither will I any more remove the foot of Israel from off the land which I have appointed for your fathers, if only they will observe to do all that I have commanded them, even all the law and the statutes and the ordinances given by Moses.
Chronicles 33:9	And Manasseh seduced Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that they did evil more than did the nations whom Jehovah destroyed before the children of Israel.
Chronicles 33:10	And Jehovah spake to Manasseh, and to his people; but they gave no heed.
Chronicles 33:11	Wherefore Jehovah brought upon them the captains of the host of the king of Assyria, who took Manasseh in chains, and bound him with fetters, and carried him to Babylon.
Chronicles 33:12	And when he was in distress, he besought Jehovah his God, and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers.
Chronicles 33:13	And he prayed unto him; and he was entreated of him, and heard his supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that Jehovah he was God.
Chronicles 33:14	Now after this he built an outer wall to the city of David, on the west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entrance at the fish gate; and he compassed Ophel about with it , and raised it up to a very great height: and he put valiant captains in all the fortified cities of Judah.
Chronicles 33:15	And he took away the foreign gods, and the idol out of the house of Jehovah, and all the altars that he had built in the mount of the house of Jehovah, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city.
Chronicles 33:16	And he built up the altar of Jehovah, and offered thereon sacrifices of peace-offerings and of thanksgiving, and commanded Judah to serve Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Chronicles 33:17	Nevertheless the people sacrificed still in the high places, but only unto Jehovah their God.
Chronicles 33:18	Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer unto his God, and the words of the seers that spake to him in the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel, behold, they are written among the acts of the kings of Israel.
Chronicles 33:19	His prayer also, and how God was entreated of him, and all his sin and his trespass, and the places wherein he built high places, and set up the Asherim and the graven images, before he humbled himself: behold, they are written in the history of Hozai.
Chronicles 33:20	So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 33:21	Amon was twenty and two years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 33:22	And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, as did Manasseh his father; and Amon sacrificed unto all the graven images which Manasseh his father had made, and served them.
Chronicles 33:23	And he humbled not himself before Jehovah, as Manasseh his father had humbled himself; but this same Amon trespassed more and more.
Chronicles 33:24	And his servants conspired against him, and put him to death in his own house.
Chronicles 33:25	But the people of the land slew all them that had conspired against king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead.
Chronicles 34:1	Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned thirty and one years in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 34:2	And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and walked in the ways of David his father, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left.
Chronicles 34:3	For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David his father; and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and the Asherim, and the graven images, and the molten images.
Chronicles 34:4	And they brake down the altars of the Baalim in his presence; and the sun-images that were on high above them he hewed down; and the Asherim, and the graven images, and the molten images, he brake in pieces, and made dust of them, and strewed it upon the graves of them that had sacrificed unto them.
Chronicles 34:5	And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars, and purged Judah and Jerusalem.
Chronicles 34:6	And'so did he in the cities of Manasseh and Ephraim and Simeon, even unto Naphtali, in their ruins round about.
Chronicles 34:7	And he brake down the altars, and beat the Asherim and the graven images into powder, and hewed down all the sun-images throughout all the land of Israel, and returned to Jerusalem.
Chronicles 34:8	Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to repair the house of Jehovah his God.
Chronicles 34:9	And they came to Hilkiah the high priest, and delivered the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites, the keepers of the threshold, had gathered of the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and of all the remnant of Israel, and of all Judah and Benjamin, and of the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Chronicles 34:10	And they delivered it into the hand of the workmen that had the oversight of the house of Jehovah; and the workmen that wrought in the house of Jehovah gave it to mend and repair the house;
Chronicles 34:11	even to the carpenters and to the builders gave they it, to buy hewn stone, and timber for couplings, and to make beams for the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed.
Chronicles 34:12	And the men did the work faithfully: and the overseers of them were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari; and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to set it forward; and others of the Levites, all that were skilful with instruments of music.
Chronicles 34:13	Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and set forward all that did the work in every manner of service: and of the Levites there were scribes, and officers, and porters.
Chronicles 34:14	And when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of Jehovah, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of Jehovah given by Moses.
Chronicles 34:15	And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of Jehovah. And Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan.
Chronicles 34:16	And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and moreover brought back word to the king, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, they are doing.
Chronicles 34:17	And they have emptied out the money that was found in the house of Jehovah, and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers, and into the hand of the workmen.
Chronicles 34:18	And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath delivered me a book. And Shaphan read therein before the king.
Chronicles 34:19	And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the law, that he rent his clothes.
Chronicles 34:20	And the king commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
Chronicles 34:21	Go ye, inquire of Jehovah for me, and for them that are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the book that is found; for great is the wrath of Jehovah that is poured out upon us, because our fathers have not kept the word of Jehovah, to do according unto all that is written in this book.
Chronicles 34:22	So Hilkiah, and they whom the king had commanded , went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tokhath, the son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the second quarter;) and they spake to her to that effect.
Chronicles 34:23	And she said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: Tell ye the man that sent you unto me,
Chronicles 34:24	Thus saith Jehovah, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the curses that are written in the book which they have read before the king of Judah.
Chronicles 34:25	Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore is my wrath poured out upon this place, and it shall not be quenched.
Chronicles 34:26	But unto the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, thus shall ye say to him, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: As touching the words which thou hast heard,
Chronicles 34:27	because thy heart was tender, and thou didst humble thyself before God, when thou heardest his words against this place, and against the inhabitants thereof, and hast humbled thyself before me, and hast rent thy clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard thee, saith Jehovah.
Chronicles 34:28	Behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered to thy grave in peace, neither shall thine eyes see all the evil that I will bring upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof. And they brought back word to the king.
Chronicles 34:29	Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
Chronicles 34:30	And the king went up to the house of Jehovah, and all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests, and the Levites, and all the people, both great and small: and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 34:31	And the king stood in his place, and made a covenant before Jehovah, to walk after Jehovah, and to keep his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that were written in this book.
Chronicles 34:32	And he caused all that were found in Jerusalem and Benjamin to stand to it . And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers.
Chronicles 34:33	And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all the countries that pertained to the children of Israel, and made all that were found in Israel to serve, even to serve Jehovah their God. All his days they departed not from following Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
Chronicles 35:1	And Josiah kept a passover unto Jehovah in Jerusalem: and they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.
Chronicles 35:2	And he set the priests in their offices, and encouraged them to the service of the house of Jehovah.
Chronicles 35:3	And he said unto the Levites that taught all Israel, that were holy unto Jehovah, Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel did build; there shall no more be a burden upon your shoulders: now serve Jehovah your God, and his people Israel.
Chronicles 35:4	And prepare yourselves after your fathers houses by your courses, according to the writing of David king of Israel, and according to the writing of Solomon his son.
Chronicles 35:5	And stand in the holy place according to the divisions of the fathers houses of your brethren the children of the people, and let there be for each a portion of a fathers house of the Levites.
Chronicles 35:6	And kill the passover, and sanctify yourselves, and prepare for your brethren, to do according to the word of Jehovah by Moses.
Chronicles 35:7	And Josiah gave to the children of the people, of the flock, lambs and kids, all of them for the passover-offerings, unto all that were present, to the number of thirty thousand, and three thousand bullocks: these were of the king's substance.
Chronicles 35:8	And his princes gave for a freewill-offering unto the people, to the priests, and to the Levites. Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, the rulers of the house of God, gave unto the priests for the passover-offerings two thousand and six hundred'small cattle , and three hundred oxen.
Chronicles 35:9	Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel, his brethren, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the chiefs of the Levites, gave unto the Levites for the passover-offerings five thousand'small cattle , and five hundred oxen.
Chronicles 35:10	So the service was prepared, and the priests stood in their place, and the Levites by their courses, according to the king's commandment.
Chronicles 35:11	And they killed the passover, and the priests sprinkled the blood which they received of their hand, and the Levites flayed them.
Chronicles 35:12	And they removed the burnt-offerings, that they might give them according to the divisions of the fathers houses of the children of the people, to offer unto Jehovah, as it is written in the book of Moses. And so did they with the oxen.
Chronicles 35:13	And they roasted the passover with fire according to the ordinance: and the holy offerings boiled they in pots, and in caldrons, and in pans, and carried them quickly to all the children of the people.
Chronicles 35:14	And afterward they prepared for themselves, and for the priests, because the priests the sons of Aaron were busied in offering the burnt-offerings and the fat until night: therefore the Levites prepared for themselves, and for the priests the sons of Aaron.
Chronicles 35:15	And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according to the commandment of David, and Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun the king's seer; and the porters were at every gate: they needed not to depart from their service; for their brethren the Levites prepared for them.
Chronicles 35:16	So all the service of Jehovah was prepared the same day, to keep the passover, and to offer burnt-offerings upon the altar of Jehovah, according to the commandment of king Josiah.
Chronicles 35:17	And the children of Israel that were present kept the passover at that time, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.
Chronicles 35:18	And there was no passover like to that kept in Israel from the days of Samuel the prophet; neither did any of the kings of Israel keep such a passover as Josiah kept, and the priests, and the Levites, and all Judah and Israel that were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Chronicles 35:19	In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was this passover kept.
Chronicles 35:20	After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Neco king of Egypt went up to fight against Carchemish by the Euphrates: and Josiah went out against him.
Chronicles 35:21	But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, What have I to do with thee, thou king of Judah? I come not against thee this day, but against the house wherewith I have war; and God hath commanded me to make haste: forbear thee from meddling with God, who is with me, that he destroy thee not.
Chronicles 35:22	Nevertheless Josiah would not turn his face from him, but disguised himself, that he might fight with him, and hearkened not unto the words of Neco from the mouth of God, and came to fight in the valley of Megiddo.
Chronicles 35:23	And the archers shot at king Josiah; and the king said to his servants, Have me away; for I am sore wounded.
Chronicles 35:24	So his servants took him out of the chariot, and put him in the second chariot that he had, and brought him to Jerusalem; and he died, and was buried in the sepulchres of his fathers. And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah.
Chronicles 35:25	And Jeremiah lamented for Josiah: and all the singing men and singing women spake of Josiah in their lamentations unto this day; and they made them an ordinance in Israel: and, behold, they are written in the lamentations.
Chronicles 35:26	Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his good deeds, according to that which is written in the law of Jehovah,
Chronicles 35:27	and his acts, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.
Chronicles 36:1	Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and made him king in his father's stead in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 36:2	Joahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 36:3	And the king of Egypt deposed him at Jerusalem, and fined the land a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.
Chronicles 36:4	And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. And Neco took Joahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt.
Chronicles 36:5	Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah his God.
Chronicles 36:6	Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and bound him in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.
Chronicles 36:7	Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of Jehovah to Babylon, and put them in his temple at Babylon.
Chronicles 36:8	Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations which he did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah: and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead.
Chronicles 36:9	Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
Chronicles 36:10	And at the return of the year king Nebuchadnezzar sent, and brought him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of Jehovah, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.
Chronicles 36:11	Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem:
Chronicles 36:12	and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah his God; he humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet'speaking from the mouth of Jehovah.
Chronicles 36:13	And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart against turning unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Chronicles 36:14	Moreover all the chiefs of the priests, and the people, trespassed very greatly after all the abominations of the nations; and they polluted the house of Jehovah which he had hallowed in Jerusalem.
Chronicles 36:15	And Jehovah, the God of their fathers, sent to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending, because he had compassion on his people, and on his dwelling-place:
Chronicles 36:16	but they mocked the messengers of God, and despised his words, and scoffed at his prophets, until the wrath of Jehovah arose against his people, till there was no remedy.
Chronicles 36:17	Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldeans, who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion upon young man or virgin, old man or hoary-headed: he gave them all into his hand.
Chronicles 36:18	And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king, and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon.
Chronicles 36:19	And they burnt the house of God, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed all the goodly vessels thereof.
Chronicles 36:20	And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to Babylon; and they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia:
Chronicles 36:21	to fulfil the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed its sabbaths: for as long as it lay desolate it kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and ten years.
Chronicles 36:22	Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, Jehovah stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying,
Chronicles 36:23	Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth hath Jehovah, the God of heaven, given me; and he hath charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whosoever there is among you of all his people, Jehovah his God be with him, and let him go up.
Corinthians 1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our brother, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints that are in the whole of Achaia:
Corinthians 1:2	Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Corinthians 1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort;
Corinthians 1:4	who comforteth us in all our affliction, that we may be able to comfort them that are in any affliction, through the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God.
Corinthians 1:5	For as the sufferings of Christ abound unto us, even so our comfort also aboundeth through Christ.
Corinthians 1:6	But whether we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation; or whether we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which worketh in the patient enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer:
Corinthians 1:7	and our hope for you is stedfast; knowing that, as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so also are ye of the comfort.
Corinthians 1:8	For we would not have you ignorant, brethren, concerning our affliction which befell us in Asia, that we were weighed down exceedingly, beyond our power, insomuch that we despaired even of life:
Corinthians 1:9	yea, we ourselves have had the sentence of death within ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God who raiseth the dead:
Corinthians 1:10	who delivered us out of so great a death, and will deliver: on whom we have set our hope that he will also still deliver us;
Corinthians 1:11	ye also helping together on our behalf by your supplication; that, for the gift bestowed upon us by means of many, thanks may be given by many persons on our behalf.
Corinthians 1:12	For our glorifying is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in holiness and sincerity of God, not in fleshly wisdom but in the grace of God, we behaved ourselves in the world, and more abundantly to you-ward.
Corinthians 1:13	For we write no other things unto you, than what ye read or even acknowledge, and I hope ye will acknowledge unto the end:
Corinthians 1:14	as also ye did acknowledge us in part, that we are your glorying, even as ye also are ours, in the day of our Lord Jesus.
Corinthians 1:15	And in this confidence I was minded to come first unto you, that ye might have a second benefit;
Corinthians 1:16	and by you to pass into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come unto you, and of you to be set forward on my journey unto Judaea.
Corinthians 1:17	When I therefore was thus minded, did I show fickleness? or the things that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that with me there should be the yea yea and the nay nay?
Corinthians 1:18	But as God is faithful, our word toward you is not yea and nay.
Corinthians 1:19	For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, even by me and Silvanus and Timothy, was not yea and nay, but in him is yea.
Corinthians 1:20	For how many soever be the promises of God, in him is the yea: wherefore also through him is the Amen, unto the glory of God through us.
Corinthians 1:21	Now he that establisheth us with you in Christ, and anointed us, is God;
Corinthians 1:22	who also sealed us, and gave us the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
Corinthians 1:23	But I call God for a witness upon my soul, that to spare you I forbare to come unto Corinth.
Corinthians 1:24	Not that we have lordship over your faith, but are helpers of your joy: for in faith ye stand fast.
Corinthians 2:1	But I determined this for myself, that I would not come again to you with sorrow.
Corinthians 2:2	For if I make you sorry, who then is he that maketh me glad but he that is made sorry by me?
Corinthians 2:3	And I wrote this very thing, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of you all.
Corinthians 2:4	For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears; not that ye should be made sorry, but that ye might know the love that I have more abundantly unto you.
Corinthians 2:5	But if any hath caused sorrow, he hath caused sorrow, not to me, but in part (that I press not too heavily) to you all.
Corinthians 2:6	Sufficient to such a one is this punishment which was inflicted by the many;
Corinthians 2:7	so that contrariwise ye should rather forgive him and comfort him, lest by any means such a one should be swallowed up with his overmuch sorrow.
Corinthians 2:8	Wherefore I beseech you to confirm your love toward him.
Corinthians 2:9	For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether ye are obedient in all things.
Corinthians 2:10	But to whom ye forgive anything, I forgive also: for what I also have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, for your sakes have I forgiven it in the presence of Christ;
Corinthians 2:11	that no advantage may be gained over us by Satan: for we are not ignorant of his devices.
Corinthians 2:12	Now when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ, and when a door was opened unto me in the Lord,
Corinthians 2:13	I had no relief for my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of them, I went forth into Macedonia.
Corinthians 2:14	But thanks be unto God, who always leadeth us in triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest through us the savor of his knowledge in every place.
Corinthians 2:15	For we are a sweet savor of Christ unto God, in them that are saved, and in them that perish;
Corinthians 2:16	to the one a savor from death unto death; to the other a savor from life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things?
Corinthians 2:17	For we are not as the many, corrupting the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, speak we in Christ.
Corinthians 3:1	Are we beginning again to commend ourselves? or need we, as do some, epistles of commendation to you or from you?
Corinthians 3:2	Ye are our epistle, written in our hearts, known and read of all men;
Corinthians 3:3	being made manifest that ye are an epistle of Christ, ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in tables that are hearts of flesh.
Corinthians 3:4	And such confidence have we through Christ to God-ward:
Corinthians 3:5	not that we are sufficient of ourselves, to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God;
Corinthians 3:6	who also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
Corinthians 3:7	But if the ministration of death, written, and engraven on stones, came with glory, so that the children of Israel could not look stedfastly upon the face of Moses for the glory of his face; which glory was passing away:
Corinthians 3:8	how shall not rather the ministration of the spirit be with glory?
Corinthians 3:9	For if the ministration of condemnation hath glory, much rather doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory.
Corinthians 3:10	For verily that which hath been made glorious hath not been made glorious in this respect, by reason of the glory that surpasseth.
Corinthians 3:11	For if that which passeth away was with glory, much more that which remaineth is in glory.
Corinthians 3:12	Having therefore such a hope, we use great boldness of speech,
Corinthians 3:13	and are not as Moses, who put a veil upon his face, that the children of Israel should not look stedfastly on the end of that which was passing away:
Corinthians 3:14	but their minds were hardened: for until this very day at the reading of the old covenant the same veil remaineth, it not being revealed to them that it is done away in Christ.
Corinthians 3:15	But unto this day, whensoever Moses is read, a veil lieth upon their heart.
Corinthians 3:16	But whensoever it shall turn to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
Corinthians 3:17	Now the Lord is the Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty.
Corinthians 3:18	But we all, with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord the Spirit.
Corinthians 4:1	Therefore seeing we have this ministry, even as we obtained mercy, we faint not:
Corinthians 4:2	but we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully; but by the manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God.
Corinthians 4:3	And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled in them that perish:
Corinthians 4:4	in whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of the unbelieving, that the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, should not dawn upon them .
Corinthians 4:5	For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your servants for Jesus'sake.
Corinthians 4:6	Seeing it is God, that said, Light shall shine out of darkness, who shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
Corinthians 4:7	But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the exceeding greatness of the power may be of God, and not from ourselves;
Corinthians 4:8	we are pressed on every side, yet not straitened; perplexed, yet not unto despair;
Corinthians 4:9	pursued, yet not forsaken; smitten down, yet not destroyed;
Corinthians 4:10	always bearing about in the body the dying of Jesus, that the life also of Jesus may be manifested in our body.
Corinthians 4:11	For we who live are always delivered unto death for Jesus'sake, that the life also of Jesus may be manifested in our mortal flesh.
Corinthians 4:12	So then death worketh in us, but life in you.
Corinthians 4:13	But having the same spirit of faith, according to that which is written, I believed, and therefore did I speak; we also believe, and therefore also we speak;
Corinthians 4:14	knowing that he that raised up the Lord Jesus shall raise up us also with Jesus, and shall present us with you.
Corinthians 4:15	For all things are for your sakes, that the grace, being multiplied through the many, may cause the thanksgiving to abound unto the glory of God.
Corinthians 4:16	Wherefore we faint not; but though our outward man is decaying, yet our inward man is renewed day by day.
Corinthians 4:17	For our light affliction, which is for the moment, worketh for us more and more exceedingly an eternal weight of glory;
Corinthians 4:18	while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal.
Corinthians 5:1	For we know that if the earthly house of our tabernacle be dissolved, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens.
Corinthians 5:2	For verily in this we groan, longing to be clothed upon with our habitation which is from heaven:
Corinthians 5:3	if so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked.
Corinthians 5:4	For indeed we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened; not for that we would be unclothed, but that we would be clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed up of life.
Corinthians 5:5	Now he that wrought us for this very thing is God, who gave unto us the earnest of the Spirit.
Corinthians 5:6	Being therefore always of good courage, and knowing that, whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord
Corinthians 5:7	(for we walk by faith, not by sight);
Corinthians 5:8	we are of good courage, I say, and are willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be at home with the Lord.
Corinthians 5:9	Wherefore also we make it our aim, whether at home or absent, to be well-pleasing unto him.
Corinthians 5:10	For we must all be made manifest before the judgment-seat of Christ; that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he hath done, whether it be good or bad.
Corinthians 5:11	Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest unto God; and I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences.
Corinthians 5:12	We are not again commending ourselves unto you, but'speak as giving you occasion of glorying on our behalf, that ye may have wherewith to answer them that glory in appearance, and not in heart.
Corinthians 5:13	For whether we are beside ourselves, it is unto God; or whether we are of sober mind, it is unto you.
Corinthians 5:14	For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge, that one died for all, therefore all died;
Corinthians 5:15	and he died for all, that they that live should no longer live unto themselves, but unto him who for their sakes died and rose again.
Corinthians 5:16	Wherefore we henceforth know no man after the flesh: even though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now we know him so no more.
Corinthians 5:17	Wherefore if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature: the old things are passed away; behold, they are become new.
Corinthians 5:18	But all things are of God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ, and gave unto us the ministry of reconciliation;
Corinthians 5:19	to wit, that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not reckoning unto them their trespasses, and having committed unto us the word of reconciliation.
Corinthians 5:20	We are ambassadors therefore on behalf of Christ, as though God were entreating by us: we beseech you on behalf of Christ, be ye reconciled to God.
Corinthians 5:21	Him who knew no sin he made to be'sin on our behalf; that we might become the righteousness of God in him.
Corinthians 6:1	And working together with him we entreat also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain
Corinthians 6:2	(for he saith, At an acceptable time I hearkened unto thee, And in a day of salvation did I succor thee: behold, now is the acceptable time; behold, now is the day of salvation):
Corinthians 6:3	giving no occasion of stumbling in anything, that our ministration be not blamed;
Corinthians 6:4	but in everything commending ourselves, as ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses,
Corinthians 6:5	in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings;
Corinthians 6:6	in pureness, in knowledge, in long suffering, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in love unfeigned,
Corinthians 6:7	in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left,
Corinthians 6:8	by glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report; as deceivers, and yet true;
Corinthians 6:9	as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed;
Corinthians 6:10	as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things.
Corinthians 6:11	Our mouth is open unto you, O Corinthians, our heart is enlarged.
Corinthians 6:12	Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are straitened in your own affections.
Corinthians 6:13	Now for a recompense in like kind (I speak as unto my children), be ye also enlarged.
Corinthians 6:14	Be not unequally yoked with unbelievers: for what fellowship have righteousness and iniquity? or what communion hath light with darkness?
Corinthians 6:15	And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what portion hath a believer with an unbeliever?
Corinthians 6:16	And what agreement hath a temple of God with idols? for we are a temple of the living God; even as God said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Corinthians 6:17	Wherefore Come ye out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, And touch no unclean thing; And I will receive you,
Corinthians 6:18	And will be to you a Father, And ye shall be to me sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty.
Corinthians 7:1	Having therefore these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Corinthians 7:2	Open your hearts to us: we wronged no man, we corrupted no man, we took advantage of no man.
Corinthians 7:3	I say it not to condemn you : for I have said before, that ye are in our hearts to die together and live together.
Corinthians 7:4	Great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my glorying on your behalf: I am filled with comfort, I overflow with joy in all our affliction.
Corinthians 7:5	For even when we were come into Macedonia our flesh had no relief, but we were afflicted on every side; without were fightings, within were fears.
Corinthians 7:6	Nevertheless he that comforteth the lowly, even God, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
Corinthians 7:7	and not by his coming only, but also by the comfort wherewith he was comforted in you, while he told us your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me; so that I rejoiced yet more.
Corinthians 7:8	For though I made you sorry with my epistle, I do not regret it: though I did regret it (for I see that that epistle made you sorry, though but for a season),
Corinthians 7:9	I now rejoice, not that ye were made sorry, but that ye were made sorry unto repentance; for ye were made sorry after a godly sort, that ye might suffer loss by us in nothing.
Corinthians 7:10	For godly sorrow worketh repentance unto salvation, a repentance which bringeth no regret: but the sorrow of the world worketh death.
Corinthians 7:11	For behold, this selfsame thing, that ye were made sorry after a godly sort, what earnest care it wrought in you, yea what clearing of yourselves, yea what indignation, yea what fear, yea what longing, yea what zeal, yea what avenging! In everything ye approved yourselves to be pure in the matter.
Corinthians 7:12	So although I wrote unto you, I wrote not for his cause that did the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered the wrong, but that your earnest care for us might be made manifest unto you in the sight of God.
Corinthians 7:13	Therefore we have been comforted: And in our comfort we joyed the more exceedingly for the joy of Titus, because his spirit hath been refreshed by you all.
Corinthians 7:14	For if in anything I have gloried to him on your behalf, I was not put to shame; but as we spake all things to you in truth, so our glorying also which I made before Titus was found to be truth.
Corinthians 7:15	And his affection is more abundantly toward you, while he remembereth the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling ye received him.
Corinthians 7:16	I rejoice that in everything I am of good courage concerning you.
Corinthians 8:1	Moreover, brethren, we make known to you the grace of God which hath been given in the churches of Macedonia;
Corinthians 8:2	how that in much proof of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality.
Corinthians 8:3	For according to their power, I bear witness, yea and beyond their power, they gave of their own accord,
Corinthians 8:4	beseeching us with much entreaty in regard of this grace and the fellowship in the ministering to the saints:
Corinthians 8:5	and this , not as we had hoped, but first they gave their own selves to the Lord, and to us through the will of God.
Corinthians 8:6	Insomuch that we exhorted Titus, that as he made a beginning before, so he would also complete in you this grace also.
Corinthians 8:7	But as ye abound in everything, in faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and in all earnestness, and in your love to us,'see that ye abound in this grace also.
Corinthians 8:8	I speak not by way of commandment, but as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity also of your love.
Corinthians 8:9	For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might become rich.
Corinthians 8:10	And herein I give my judgment: for this is expedient for you, who were the first to make a beginning a year ago, not only to do, but also to will.
Corinthians 8:11	But now complete the doing also; that as there was the readiness to will, so there may be the completion also out of your ability.
Corinthians 8:12	For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according as a man hath, not according as he hath not.
Corinthians 8:13	For I say not this that others may be eased and ye distressed;
Corinthians 8:14	but by equality: your abundance being a supply at this present time for their want, that their abundance also may become a supply for your want; that there may be equality:
Corinthians 8:15	as it is written, He that gathered much had nothing over; and he that gathered little had no lack.
Corinthians 8:16	But thanks be to God, who putteth the same earnest care for you into the heart of Titus.
Corinthians 8:17	For he accepted indeed our exhortation; but being himself very earnest, he went forth unto you of his own accord.
Corinthians 8:18	And we have sent together with him the brother whose praise in the gospel is spread through all the churches;
Corinthians 8:19	and not only so, but who was also appointed by the churches to travel with us in the matter of this grace, which is ministered by us to the glory of the Lord, and to show our readiness:
Corinthians 8:20	Avoiding this, that any man should blame us in the matter of this bounty which is ministered by us:
Corinthians 8:21	for we take thought for things honorable, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men.
Corinthians 8:22	and we have sent with them our brother, whom we have many times proved earnest in many things, but now much more earnest, by reason of the great confidence which he hath in you.
Corinthians 8:23	Whether any inquire about Titus, he is my partner and my fellow-worker to you-ward, or our brethren, they are the messengers of the churches, they are the glory of Christ.
Corinthians 8:24	Show ye therefore unto them in the face of the churches the proof of your love, and of our glorying on your behalf.
Corinthians 9:1	For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you:
Corinthians 9:2	for I know your readiness, of which I glory on your behalf to them of Macedonia, that Achaia hath been prepared for a year past; and your zeal hath stirred up very many of them.
Corinthians 9:3	But I have sent the brethren, that our glorying on your behalf may not be made void in this respect; that, even as I said, ye may be prepared:
Corinthians 9:4	lest by any means, if there come with me any of Macedonia and find you unprepared, we (that we say not, ye) should be put to shame in this confidence.
Corinthians 9:5	I thought it necessary therefore to entreat the brethren, that they would go before unto you, and make up beforehand your aforepromised bounty, that the same might be ready as a matter of bounty, and not of extortion.
Corinthians 9:6	But this I say, He that soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he that soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully.
Corinthians 9:7	Let each man do according as he hath purposed in his heart: not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver.
Corinthians 9:8	And God is able to make all grace abound unto you; that ye, having always all sufficiency in everything, may abound unto every good work:
Corinthians 9:9	as it is written, He hath scattered abroad, he hath given to the poor; His righteousness abideth for ever.
Corinthians 9:10	And he that supplieth seed to the sower and bread for food, shall supply and multiply your seed for sowing, and increase the fruits of your righteousness:
Corinthians 9:11	ye being enriched in everything unto all liberality, which worketh through us thanksgiving to God.
Corinthians 9:12	For the ministration of this service not only filleth up the measure of the wants of the saints, but aboundeth also through many thanksgivings unto God;
Corinthians 9:13	seeing that through the proving of you by this ministration they glorify God for the obedience of your confession unto the gospel of Christ, and for the liberality of your contribution unto them and unto all;
Corinthians 9:14	while they themselves also, with supplication on your behalf, long after you by reason of the exceeding grace of God in you.
Corinthians 9:15	Thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift.
Corinthians 10:1	Now I Paul myself entreat you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, I who in your presence am lowly among you, but being absent am of good courage toward you:
Corinthians 10:2	yea, I beseech you, that I may not when present show courage with the confidence wherewith I count to be bold against some, who count of us as if we walked according to the flesh.
Corinthians 10:3	For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh
Corinthians 10:4	(for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but mighty before God to the casting down of strongholds),
Corinthians 10:5	casting down imaginations, and every high thing that is exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ;
Corinthians 10:6	and being in readiness to avenge all disobedience, when your obedience shall be made full.
Corinthians 10:7	Ye look at the things that are before your face. If any man trusteth in himself that he is Christ's, let him consider this again with himself, that, even as he is Christ's, so also are we.
Corinthians 10:8	For though I should glory somewhat abundantly concerning our authority (which the Lord gave for building you up, and not for casting you down), I shall not be put to shame:
Corinthians 10:9	that I may not seem as if I would terrify you by my letters.
Corinthians 10:10	For, His letters, they say, are weighty and strong; but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech of no account.
Corinthians 10:11	Let such a one reckon this, that, what we are in word by letters when we are absent, such are we also in deed when we are present.
Corinthians 10:12	For we are not bold to number or compare ourselves with certain of them that commend themselves: but they themselves, measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves with themselves, are without understanding.
Corinthians 10:13	But we will not glory beyond our measure, but according to the measure of the province which God apportioned to us as a measure, to reach even unto you.
Corinthians 10:14	For we stretch not ourselves overmuch, as though we reached not unto you: for we came even as far as unto you in the gospel of Christ:
Corinthians 10:15	not glorying beyond our measure, that is, in other men's labors; but having hope that, as your faith groweth, we shall be magnified in you according to our province unto further abundance,
Corinthians 10:16	so as to preach the gospel even unto the parts beyond you, and not to glory in another's province in regard of things ready to our hand.
Corinthians 10:17	But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.
Corinthians 10:18	For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the Lord commendeth.
Corinthians 11:1	Would that ye could bear with me in a little foolishness: but indeed ye do bear with me.
Corinthians 11:2	For I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy: for I espoused you to one husband, that I might present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
Corinthians 11:3	But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve in his craftiness, your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity and the purity that is toward Christ.
Corinthians 11:4	For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we did not preach, or if ye receive a different spirit, which ye did not receive, or a different gospel, which ye did not accept, ye do well to bear with him .
Corinthians 11:5	For I reckon that I am not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles.
Corinthians 11:6	But though I be rude in speech, yet am I not in knowledge; nay, in every way have we made this manifest unto you in all things.
Corinthians 11:7	Or did I commit a sin in abasing myself that ye might be exalted, because I preached to you the gospel of God for nought?
Corinthians 11:8	I robbed other churches, taking wages of them that I might minister unto you;
Corinthians 11:9	and when I was present with you and was in want, I was not a burden on any man; for the brethren, when they came from Macedonia, supplied the measure of my want; and in everything I kept myself from being burdensome unto you, and'so will I keep myself .
Corinthians 11:10	As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this glorying in the regions of Achaia.
Corinthians 11:11	Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth.
Corinthians 11:12	But what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from them that desire an occasion; that wherein they glory, they may be found even as we.
Corinthians 11:13	For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, fashioning themselves into apostles of Christ.
Corinthians 11:14	And no marvel; for even Satan fashioneth himself into an angel of light.
Corinthians 11:15	It is no great thing therefore if his ministers also fashion themselves as ministers of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works.
Corinthians 11:16	I say again, let no man think me foolish; but if ye do , yet as foolish receive me, that I also may glory a little.
Corinthians 11:17	That which I speak, I speak not after the Lord, but as in foolishness, in this confidence of glorying.
Corinthians 11:18	Seeing that many glory after the flesh, I will glory also.
Corinthians 11:19	For ye bear with the foolish gladly, being wise yourselves .
Corinthians 11:20	For ye bear with a man, if he bringeth you into bondage, if he devoureth you, if he taketh you captive , if he exalteth himself, if he smiteth you on the face.
Corinthians 11:21	I speak by way of disparagement, as though we had been weak. Yet whereinsoever any is bold (I speak in foolishness), I am bold also.
Corinthians 11:22	Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I.
Corinthians 11:23	Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as one beside himself) I more; in labors more abundantly, in prisons more abundantly, in stripes above measure, in deaths oft.
Corinthians 11:24	Of the Jews five times received I forty'stripes'save one.
Corinthians 11:25	Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day have I been in the deep;
Corinthians 11:26	in journeyings often, in perils of rivers, in perils of robbers, in perils from my countrymen, in perils from the Gentiles, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren;
Corinthians 11:27	in labor and travail, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness.
Corinthians 11:28	Besides those things that are without, there is that which presseth upon me daily, anxiety for all the churches.
Corinthians 11:29	Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is caused to stumble, and I burn not?
Corinthians 11:30	If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things that concern my weakness.
Corinthians 11:31	The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who is blessed for evermore knoweth that I lie not.
Corinthians 11:32	In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king guarded the city of the Damascenes in order to take me:
Corinthians 11:33	and through a window was I let down in a basket by the wall, and escaped his hands.
Corinthians 12:1	I must needs glory, though it is not expedient; but I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
Corinthians 12:2	I know a man in Christ, fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I know not; or whether out of the body, I know not; God knoweth), such a one caught up even to the third heaven.
Corinthians 12:3	And I know such a man (whether in the body, or apart from the body, I know not; God knoweth),
Corinthians 12:4	how that he was caught up into Paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.
Corinthians 12:5	On behalf of such a one will I glory: but on mine own behalf I will not glory, save in my weaknesses.
Corinthians 12:6	For if I should desire to glory, I shall not be foolish; for I shall speak the truth: but I forbear, lest any man should account of me above that which he seeth me to be , or heareth from me.
Corinthians 12:7	And by reason of the exceeding greatness of the revelations, that I should not be exalted overmuch, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, that I should not be exalted overmuch.
Corinthians 12:8	Concerning this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me.
Corinthians 12:9	And he hath said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my power is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
Corinthians 12:10	Wherefore I take pleasure in weaknesses, in injuries, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong.
Corinthians 12:11	I am become foolish: ye compelled me; for I ought to have been commended of you: for in nothing was I behind the very chiefest apostles, though I am nothing.
Corinthians 12:12	Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience, by signs and wonders and mighty works.
Corinthians 12:13	For what is there wherein ye were made inferior to the rest of the churches, except it be that I myself was not a burden to you? forgive me this wrong.
Corinthians 12:14	Behold, this is the third time I am ready to come to you; and I will not be a burden to you: for I seek not yours, but you: for the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
Corinthians 12:15	And I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved the less?
Corinthians 12:16	But be it so, I did not myself burden you; but, being crafty, I caught you with guile.
Corinthians 12:17	Did I take advantage of you by any one of them whom I have sent unto you?
Corinthians 12:18	I exhorted Titus, and I sent the brother with him. Did Titus take any advantage of you? walked we not in the same spirit? walked we not in the same steps?
Corinthians 12:19	Ye think all this time that we are excusing ourselves unto you. In the sight of God speak we in Christ. But all things, beloved, are for your edifying.
Corinthians 12:20	For I fear, lest by any means, when I come, I should find you not such as I would, and should myself be found of you such as ye would not; lest by any means there should be'strife, jealousy, wraths, factions, backbitings, whisperings, swellings, tumults;
Corinthians 12:21	lest again when I come my God should humble me before you, and I should mourn for many of them that have sinned heretofore, and repented not of the uncleanness and fornication and lasciviousness which they committed.
Corinthians 13:1	This is the third time I am coming to you. At the mouth of two witnesses or three shall every word established.
Corinthians 13:2	I have said beforehand, and I do say beforehand, as when I was present the second time, so now, being absent, to them that have sinned heretofore, and to all the rest, that, if I come again, I will not spare;
Corinthians 13:3	seeing that ye seek a proof of Christ that speaketh in me; who to you-ward is not weak, but is powerful in you:
Corinthians 13:4	for he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth through the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him through the power of God toward you.
Corinthians 13:5	Try your own selves, whether ye are in the faith; prove your own selves. Or know ye not as to your own selves, that Jesus Christ is in you? unless indeed ye be reprobate.
Corinthians 13:6	But I hope that ye shall know that we are not reprobate.
Corinthians 13:7	Now we pray to God that ye do no evil; not that we may appear approved, but that ye may do that which is honorable, though we be as reprobate.
Corinthians 13:8	For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.
Corinthians 13:9	For we rejoice, when we are weak, and ye are strong: this we also pray for, even your perfecting.
Corinthians 13:10	For this cause I write these things while absent, that I may not when present deal sharply, according to the authority which the Lord gave me for building up, and not for casting down.
Corinthians 13:11	Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfected; be comforted; be of the same mind; live in peace: and the God of love and peace shall be with you.
Corinthians 13:12	Salute one another with a holy kiss.
Corinthians 13:13	All the saints salute you.
Corinthians 13:14	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit, be with you all.
Thessalonians 1:1	Paul, and Silvanus, and Timothy, unto the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ;
Thessalonians 1:2	Grace to you and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Thessalonians 1:3	We are bound to give thanks to God always to you, brethren, even as it is meet, for that your faith growth exceedingly, and the love of each one of you all toward one another aboundeth;
Thessalonians 1:4	so that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions which ye endure;
Thessalonians 1:5	which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God; to the end that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer:
Thessalonians 1:6	if so be that it is righteous thing with God to recompense affliction to them that afflict you,
Thessalonians 1:7	and to you that are afflicted rest with us, at the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with the angels of his power in flaming fire,
Thessalonians 1:8	rendering vengeance to them that know not God, and to them that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus:
Thessalonians 1:9	who shall suffer punishment, even eternal destruction from the face of the Lord and from the glory of his might,
Thessalonians 1:10	when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be marvelled at in all them that believed (because our testimony unto you was believed) in that day.
Thessalonians 1:11	To which end we also pray always for you, that our God may count you worthy of your calling, and fulfil every desire of goodness and every work of faith, with power;
Thessalonians 1:12	that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and ye in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Thessalonians 2:1	Now we beseech you, brethren, touching the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our gathering together unto him;
Thessalonians 2:2	to the end that ye be not quickly shaken from your mind, nor yet be troubled, either by spirit, or by word, or by epistle as from us, as that the day of the Lord is just at hand;
Thessalonians 2:3	let no man beguile you in any wise: for it will not be, except the falling away come first, and the man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition,
Thessalonians 2:4	he that opposeth and exalteth himself against all that is called God or that is worshipped; so that he sitteth in the temple of God, setting himself forth as God.
Thessalonians 2:5	Remember ye not, that, when I was yet with you, I told you these things?
Thessalonians 2:6	And now ye know that which restraineth, to the end that he may be revealed in his own season.
Thessalonians 2:7	For the mystery of lawlessness doth already work: only there is one that restraineth now, until he be taken out of the way.
Thessalonians 2:8	And then shall be revealed the lawless one, whom the Lord Jesus shall slay with the breath of his mouth, and bring to nought by the manifestation of his coming;
Thessalonians 2:9	even he , whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
Thessalonians 2:10	and with all deceit of unrighteousness for them that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved.
Thessalonians 2:11	And for this cause God sendeth them a working of error, that they should believe a lie:
Thessalonians 2:12	that they all might be judged who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
Thessalonians 2:13	But we are bound to give thanks to God always for you, brethren beloved of the Lord, for that God chose you from the beginning unto salvation in sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth:
Thessalonians 2:14	whereunto he called you through our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Thessalonians 2:15	So then, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye were taught, whether by word, or by epistle of ours.
Thessalonians 2:16	Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace,
Thessalonians 2:17	comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word.
Thessalonians 3:1	Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may run and be glorified, even as also it is with you;
Thessalonians 3:2	and that we may be delivered from unreasonable and evil men; for all have not faith.
Thessalonians 3:3	But the Lord is faithful, who shall establish you, and guard you from the evil one .
Thessalonians 3:4	And we have confidence in the Lord touching you, that ye both do and will do the things which we command.
Thessalonians 3:5	And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patience of Christ.
Thessalonians 3:6	Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which they received of us.
Thessalonians 3:7	For yourselves know how ye ought to imitate us: for we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you;
Thessalonians 3:8	neither did we eat bread for nought at any man's hand, but in labor and travail, working night and day, that we might not burden any of you:
Thessalonians 3:9	not because we have not the right, but to make ourselves and ensample unto you, that ye should imitate us.
Thessalonians 3:10	For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, If any will not work, neither let him eat.
Thessalonians 3:11	For we hear of some that walk among you disorderly, that work not at all, but are busybodies.
Thessalonians 3:12	Now them that are such we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread.
Thessalonians 3:13	But ye, brethren, be not weary in well-doing.
Thessalonians 3:14	And if any man obeyeth not our word by this epistle, note that man, that ye have no company with him, to the end that he may be ashamed.
Thessalonians 3:15	And yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.
Thessalonians 3:16	Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in all ways. The Lord be with you all.
Thessalonians 3:17	The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle: so I write.
Thessalonians 3:18	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
Timothy 1:1	Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus,
Timothy 1:2	to Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
Timothy 1:3	I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, how unceasing is my remembrance of thee in my supplications, night and day
Timothy 1:4	longing to see thee, remembering thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;
Timothy 1:5	having been reminded of the unfeigned faith that is in thee; which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and, I am persuaded, in thee also.
Timothy 1:6	For which cause I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee through the laying on of my hands.
Timothy 1:7	For God gave us not a spirit of fearfulness; but of power and love and discipline.
Timothy 1:8	Be not ashamed therefore of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but suffer hardship with the gospel according to the power of God;
Timothy 1:9	who saved us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before times eternal,
Timothy 1:10	but hath now been manifested by the appearing of our Saviour Christ Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
Timothy 1:11	whereunto I was appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher.
Timothy 1:12	For which cause I suffer also these things: yet I am not ashamed; for I know him whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to guard that which I have committed unto him against that day.
Timothy 1:13	Hold the pattern of sound words which thou hast heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
Timothy 1:14	That good thing which was committed unto thee guard through the Holy Spirit which dwelleth in us.
Timothy 1:15	This thou knowest, that all that are in Asia turned away from me; of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
Timothy 1:16	The Lord grant mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus: for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain;
Timothy 1:17	but, when he was in Rome, he sought me diligently, and found me
Timothy 1:18	(the Lord grant unto him to find mercy of the Lord in that day); and in how many things he ministered at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.
Timothy 2:1	Thou therefore, my child, be strengthened in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
Timothy 2:2	And the things which thou hast heard from me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also.
Timothy 2:3	Suffer hardship with me , as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
Timothy 2:4	No soldier on service entangleth himself in the affairs of this life; that he may please him who enrolled him as a soldier.
Timothy 2:5	And if also a man contend in the games, he is not crowned, except he have contended lawfully.
Timothy 2:6	The husbandmen that laboreth must be the first to partake of the fruits.
Timothy 2:7	Consider what I say; for the Lord shall give thee understanding in all things.
Timothy 2:8	Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel:
Timothy 2:9	wherein I suffer hardship unto bonds, as a malefactor; but the word of God is not bound.
Timothy 2:10	Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
Timothy 2:11	Faithful is the saying: For if we died with him, we shall also live with him:
Timothy 2:12	if we endure, we shall also reign with him: if we shall deny him, he also will deny us:
Timothy 2:13	if we are faithless, he abideth faithful; for he cannot deny himself.
Timothy 2:14	Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them in the sight of the Lord, that they strive not about words, to no profit, to the subverting of them that hear.
Timothy 2:15	Give diligence to present thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, handling aright the word of truth.
Timothy 2:16	But shun profane babblings: for they will proceed further in ungodliness,
Timothy 2:17	and their word will eat as doth a gangrene: or whom is Hymenaeus an Philetus;
Timothy 2:18	men who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already, and overthrow the faith of some.
Timothy 2:19	Howbeit the firm foundation of God standeth, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his: and, Let every one that nameth the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness.
Timothy 2:20	Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some unto honor, and some unto dishonor.
Timothy 2:21	If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, meet for the master's use, prepared unto every good work.
Timothy 2:22	But flee youthful lusts, and follow after righteousness, faith, love, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
Timothy 2:23	But foolish and ignorant questionings refuse, knowing that they gender strifes.
Timothy 2:24	And the Lord's servant must not strive, but be gentle towards all, apt to teach, forbearing,
Timothy 2:25	in meekness correcting them that oppose themselves; if peradventure God may give them repentance unto the knowledge of the truth,
Timothy 2:26	and they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him unto his will.
Timothy 3:1	But know this, that in the last days grievous times shall come.
Timothy 3:2	For men shall be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, haughty, railers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
Timothy 3:3	without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, fierce, no lovers of good,
Timothy 3:4	traitors, headstrong, puffed up, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God;
Timothy 3:5	holding a form of godliness, but having denied the power therefore. From these also turn away.
Timothy 3:6	For of these are they that creep into houses, and take captive silly women laden with sins, led away by divers lusts,
Timothy 3:7	ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.
Timothy 3:8	And even as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also withstand the truth. Men corrupted in mind, reprobate concerning the faith.
Timothy 3:9	But they shall proceed no further. For their folly shall be evident unto all men, as theirs also came to be.
Timothy 3:10	But thou didst follow my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, longsuffering, love, patience,
Timothy 3:11	persecutions, sufferings. What things befell me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured. And out of them all the Lord delivered me.
Timothy 3:12	Yea, and all that would live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution.
Timothy 3:13	But evil men and impostors shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.
Timothy 3:14	But abide thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them.
Timothy 3:15	And that from a babe thou hast known the sacred writings which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.
Timothy 3:16	Every scripture inspired of God is also profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction which is in righteousness.
Timothy 3:17	That the man of God may be complete, furnished completely unto every good work.
Timothy 4:1	I charge thee in the sight of God, and of Christ Jesus, who shall judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom:
Timothy 4:2	preach the word; be urgent in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all longsuffering and teaching.
Timothy 4:3	For the time will come when they will not endure the sound doctrine; but, having itching ears, will heap to themselves teachers after their own lusts;
Timothy 4:4	and will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn aside unto fables.
Timothy 4:5	But be thou sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fulfil thy ministry.
Timothy 4:6	For I am already being offered, and the time of my departure is come.
Timothy 4:7	I have fought the good fight, I have finished the course, I have kept the faith:
Timothy 4:8	henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give to me at that day; and not to me only, but also to all them that have loved his appearing.
Timothy 4:9	Give diligence to come shortly unto me:
Timothy 4:10	for Demas forsook me, having loved this present world, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
Timothy 4:11	Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee; for he is useful to me for ministering.
Timothy 4:12	But Tychicus I sent to Ephesus.
Timothy 4:13	The cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, bring when thou comest, and the books, especially the parchments.
Timothy 4:14	Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord will render to him according to his works:
Timothy 4:15	of whom do thou also beware; for he greatly withstood our words.
Timothy 4:16	At my first defence no one took my part, but all forsook me: may it not be laid to their account.
Timothy 4:17	But the Lord stood by me, and strengthened me; that through me the message might me fully proclaimed, and that all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.
Timothy 4:18	The Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will save me unto his heavenly kingdom: to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Timothy 4:19	Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus.
Timothy 4:20	Erastus remained at Corinth: but Trophimus I left at Miletus sick.
Timothy 4:21	Give diligence to come before winter. Eubulus saluteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.
Timothy 4:22	The Lord be with thy spirit. Grace be with you.
Peter 1:1	Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained a like precious faith with us in the righteousness of our God and the'saviour Jesus Christ:
Peter 1:2	Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord;
Peter 1:3	seeing that his divine power hath granted unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that called us by his own glory and virtue;
Peter 1:4	whereby he hath granted unto us his precious and exceeding great promises; that through these ye may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in that world by lust.
Peter 1:5	Yea, and for this very cause adding on your part all diligence, in your faith supply virtue; and in your virtue knowledge;
Peter 1:6	and in your knowledge self-control; and in your'self-control patience; and in your patience godliness;
Peter 1:7	and in your godliness brotherly kindness; and in your brotherly kindness love.
Peter 1:8	For if these things are yours and abound, they make you to be not idle nor unfruitful unto the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Peter 1:9	For he that lacketh these things is blind, seeing only what is near, having forgotten the cleansing from his old sins.
Peter 1:10	Wherefore, brethren, give the more diligence to make your calling and election sure: for if ye do these things, ye shall never stumble:
Peter 1:11	for thus shall be richly supplied unto you the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
Peter 1:12	Wherefore I shall be ready always to put you in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and are established in the truth which is with you .
Peter 1:13	And I think it right, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance;
Peter 1:14	knowing that the putting off of my tabernacle cometh swiftly, even as our Lord Jesus Christ signified unto me.
Peter 1:15	Yea, I will give diligence that at every time ye may be able after my decease to call these things to remembrance.
Peter 1:16	For we did not follow cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
Peter 1:17	For he received from God the Father honor and glory, when there was borne such a voice to him by the Majestic Glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased:
Peter 1:18	and this voice we ourselves heard borne out of heaven, when we were with him in the holy mount.
Peter 1:19	And we have the word of prophecy made more sure; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day-star arise in your hearts:
Peter 1:20	knowing this first, that no prophecy of scripture is of private interpretation.
Peter 1:21	For no prophecy ever came by the will of man: but men spake from God, being moved by the Holy Spirit.
Peter 2:1	But there arose false prophets also among the people, as among you also there shall be false teachers, who shall privily bring in destructive heresies, denying even the Master that bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.
Peter 2:2	And many shall follow their lascivious doings; by reason of whom the way of the truth shall be evil spoken of.
Peter 2:3	And in covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you: whose sentence now from of old lingereth not, and their destruction slumbereth not.
Peter 2:4	For if God spared not angels when they sinned, but cast them down to hell, and committed them to pits of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment;
Peter 2:5	and spared not the ancient world, but preserved Noah with seven others, a preacher of righteousness, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;
Peter 2:6	and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes condemned them with an overthrow, having made them an example unto those that should live ungodly;
Peter 2:7	and delivered righteous Lot, sore distressed by the lascivious life of the wicked
Peter 2:8	(for that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their lawless deeds):
Peter 2:9	the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment unto the day of judgment;
Peter 2:10	but chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of defilement, and despise dominion. Daring, self-willed, they tremble not to rail at dignities:
Peter 2:11	whereas angels, though greater in might and power, bring not a railing judgment against them before the Lord.
Peter 2:12	But these, as creatures without reason, born mere animals to be taken and destroyed, railing in matters whereof they are ignorant, shall in their destroying surely be destroyed,
Peter 2:13	suffering wrong as the hire of wrong-doing; men that count it pleasure to revel in the day-time, spots and blemishes, revelling in their deceivings while they feast with you;
Peter 2:14	having eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease from sin; enticing unstedfast souls; having a heart exercised in covetousness; children of cursing;
Peter 2:15	forsaking the right way, they went astray, having followed the way of Balaam the'son of Beor, who loved the hire of wrong-doing;
Peter 2:16	but he was rebuked for his own transgression: a dumb ass spake with man's voice and stayed the madness of the prophet.
Peter 2:17	These are springs without water, and mists driven by a storm; for whom the blackness of darkness hath been reserved.
Peter 2:18	For, uttering great swelling words of vanity, they entice in the lusts of the flesh, by lasciviousness, those who are just escaping from them that live in error;
Peter 2:19	promising them liberty, while they themselves are bondservants of corruption; for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he also brought into bondage.
Peter 2:20	For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein and overcome, the last state is become worse with them than the first.
Peter 2:21	For it were better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after knowing it, to turn back from the holy commandment delivered unto them.
Peter 2:22	It has happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog turning to his own vomit again, and the sow that had washed to wallowing in the mire.
Peter 3:1	This is now, beloved, the second epistle that I write unto you; and in both of them I stir up your sincere mind by putting you in remembrance;
Peter 3:2	that ye should remember the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and the commandments of the Lord and Saviour through your apostles:
Peter 3:3	knowing this first, that in the last days mockers shall come with mockery, walking after their own lusts,
Peter 3:4	and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? for, from the day that the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation.
Peter 3:5	For this they willfully forget, that there were heavens from of old, and an earth compacted out of water and amidst water, by the word of God;
Peter 3:6	by which means the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished:
Peter 3:7	but the heavens that now are, and the earth, by the same word have been stored up for fire, being reserved against the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.
Peter 3:8	But forget not this one thing, beloved, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
Peter 3:9	The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness; but is longsuffering to you-ward, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.
Peter 3:10	But the day of the Lord will come as a thief; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall be dissolved with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are therein shall be burned up.
Peter 3:11	Seeing that these things are thus all to be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy living and godliness,
Peter 3:12	looking for and earnestly desiring the coming of the day of God, by reason of which the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat?
Peter 3:13	But, according to his promise, we look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.
Peter 3:14	Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for these things, give diligence that ye may be found in peace, without spot and blameless in his sight.
Peter 3:15	And account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation; even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote unto you;
Peter 3:16	as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things; wherein are some things hard to be understood, which the ignorant and unstedfast wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their own destruction.
Peter 3:17	Ye therefore, beloved, knowing these things beforehand, beware lest, being carried away with the error of the wicked, ye fall from your own stedfastness.
Peter 3:18	But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and for ever. Amen.
John 1:1	The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth; and not I only, but also all they that know the truth;
John 1:2	for the truth's sake which abideth in us, and it shall be with us for ever:
John 1:3	Grace, mercy, peace shall be with us, from God the Father, and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.
John 1:4	I rejoice greatly that I have found certain of thy children walking in truth, even as we received commandment from the Father.
John 1:5	And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote to thee a new commandment, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another.
John 1:6	And this is love, that we should walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, even as ye heard from the beginning, that ye should walk in it.
John 1:7	For many deceivers are gone forth into the world, even they that confess not that Jesus Christ cometh in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist.
John 1:8	Look to yourselves, that ye lose not the things which we have wrought, but that ye receive a full reward.
John 1:9	Whosoever goeth onward and abideth not in the teaching of Christ, hath not God: he that abideth in the teaching, the same hath both the Father and the Son.
John 1:10	If any one cometh unto you, and bringeth not this teaching, receive him not into your house, and give him no greeting:
John 1:11	for he that giveth him greeting partaketh in his evil works.
John 1:12	Having many things to write unto you, I would not write them with paper and ink: but I hope to come unto you, and to speak face to face, that your joy may be made full.
John 1:13	The children of thine elect sister salute thee.
